coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-iii-operation/configuring-legacy-network-topology.md, before:

# Configuring Legacy Network Topology

{% hint style="info" %}
Configuring network topology is a **critical step** as skipping this step will result in your minted blocks being orphaned by the rest of the network.
{% endhint %}

## :rocket: Activating Your Relay Node

{% hint style="info" %}
Credits to [GROWPOOL](https://twitter.com/PoolGrow) for this addition and credits to [Guild Operators](https://cardano-community.github.io/guild-operators/Scripts/topologyupdater/) on creating this process.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**How the Legacy Topology API works**

1. Your relay node pings an API server.
2. When the API server is convinced that your relay node is stable and is actually a running Cardano node, based on the ability to report the current block number accurately a number of times over a period of time, then the domain name or IP address of your node is automatically added to a list of other nodes that have been vetted similarly for quality and stability.
3. When your relay node is on the list, the relay node can request from the API server a list of other active Cardano nodes with which your node can synchronize in order to participate in the network of nodes as a peer. Also, the domain name or IP address of your relay node is distributed on lists that other active Cardano nodes may request from the same API server. **NOTE**: Other nodes refreshing their list of peer nodes with a list that may include the domain name or IP address of your relay node is dependent on how often other nodes request an updated list from the API server. Request an updated list of nodes from the API server for your relay regularly so that your list of peers remains accurate.
4. In order to stay on the list of active nodes, your relay node must ping the API server once every hour. If your relay node stops pinging the API server, then your relay node is removed from the list of active nodes after three hours.

Credits for the high level explanation: [Paradoxical Sphere - Change (CHG) Cardano Stake Pool Operator](https://change.paradoxicalsphere.com)
{% endhint %}

Create the `topologyUpdater.sh` script to publish your node information to a topology fetch list.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/topologyUpdater.sh << EOF
#!/bin/bash
# shellcheck disable=SC2086,SC2034
 
USERNAME=$(whoami)
CNODE_PORT=6000 # must match your relay node port as set in the startup command
CNODE_HOSTNAME="CHANGE ME"  # optional. must resolve to the IP you are requesting from
CNODE_BIN="/usr/local/bin"
CNODE_HOME=$NODE_HOME
CNODE_LOG_DIR="\${CNODE_HOME}/logs"
GENESIS_JSON="\${CNODE_HOME}/shelley-genesis.json"
NETWORKID=\$(jq -r .networkId \$GENESIS_JSON)
CNODE_VALENCY=1   # optional for multi-IP hostnames
NWMAGIC=\$(jq -r .networkMagic < \$GENESIS_JSON)
[[ "\${NETWORKID}" = "Mainnet" ]] && HASH_IDENTIFIER="--mainnet" || HASH_IDENTIFIER="--testnet-magic \${NWMAGIC}"
[[ "\${NWMAGIC}" = "764824073" ]] && NETWORK_IDENTIFIER="--mainnet" || NETWORK_IDENTIFIER="--testnet-magic \${NWMAGIC}"
 
export PATH="\${CNODE_BIN}:\${PATH}"
export CARDANO_NODE_SOCKET_PATH="\${CNODE_HOME}/db/socket"
 
blockNo=\$(/usr/local/bin/cardano-cli query tip \${NETWORK_IDENTIFIER} | jq -r .block )
 
# Note:
# if you run your node in IPv4/IPv6 dual stack network configuration and want announced the
# IPv4 address only please add the -4 parameter to the curl command below  (curl -4 -s ...)
if [ "\${CNODE_HOSTNAME}" != "CHANGE ME" ]; then
  T_HOSTNAME="&hostname=\${CNODE_HOSTNAME}"
else
  T_HOSTNAME=''
fi

if [ ! -d \${CNODE_LOG_DIR} ]; then
  mkdir -p \${CNODE_LOG_DIR};
fi
 
curl -s "https://api.clio.one/htopology/v1/?port=\${CNODE_PORT}&blockNo=\${blockNo}&valency=\${CNODE_VALENCY}&magic=\${NWMAGIC}\${T_HOSTNAME}" | tee -a \$CNODE_LOG_DIR/topologyUpdater_lastresult.json
EOF
```

Add permissions and run the updater script.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cd $NODE_HOME
chmod +x topologyUpdater.sh
./topologyUpdater.sh
```

When the `topologyUpdater.sh` runs successfully, you will see

> `{ "resultcode": "201", "datetime":"2020-07-28 01:23:45", "clientIp": "1.2.3.4", "iptype": 4, "msg": "nice to meet you" }`

{% hint style="info" %}
Every time the script runs and updates your IP, a log is created in **`$NODE_HOME/logs`**
{% endhint %}

Add a crontab job to automatically run `topologyUpdater.sh` every hour on the 33rd minute. You can change the 33 value to your own preference.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/crontab-fragment.txt << EOF
33 * * * * ${NODE_HOME}/topologyUpdater.sh
EOF
crontab -l | cat - ${NODE_HOME}/crontab-fragment.txt > ${NODE_HOME}/crontab.txt && crontab ${NODE_HOME}/crontab.txt
rm ${NODE_HOME}/crontab-fragment.txt
```

{% hint style="success" %}
After four hours and four updates, your node IP will be registered in the topology fetch list.
{% endhint %}

## :newspaper: Updating Legacy Topology Files on a Relay Node

{% hint style="danger" %}
Complete this section after **four hours** when your relay node IP is properly registered.
{% endhint %}

Create `relay-topology_pull.sh` script which fetches your relay node buddies and updates your topology file. **Update with your block producer's IP address.**

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="mainnet" %}
```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/relay-topology_pull.sh << EOF
#!/bin/bash
BLOCKPRODUCING_IP=<BLOCK PRODUCERS IP ADDRESS>
BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT=6000
curl -s -o $NODE_HOME/topology-legacy.json "https://api.clio.one/htopology/v1/fetch/?max=20&customPeers=\${BLOCKPRODUCING_IP}:\${BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT}:1|relays-new.cardano-mainnet.iohk.io:3001:2"
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="testnet" %}
```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/relay-topology_pull.sh << EOF
#!/bin/bash
BLOCKPRODUCING_IP=<BLOCK PRODUCERS IP ADDRESS>
BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT=6000
curl -s -o $NODE_HOME/testnet-topology.json "https://api.clio.one/htopology/v1/fetch/?max=20&magic=1097911063&customPeers=${BLOCKPRODUCING_IP}:${BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT}:1|relays-new.cardano-testnet.iohkdev.io:3001:2"
EOF
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Add permissions and pull updated topology files.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
chmod +x relay-topology_pull.sh
./relay-topology_pull.sh
```

To implement the updated topology, restart your stake pool.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
sudo systemctl restart cardano-node
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
Don't forget to restart your relay nodes after every time you fetch topology!
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
:octagonal\_sign: **Critical Key Security Reminder**: The only stake pool **keys** and **certs** that are required to run a stake pool are those required by the block producer. Namely, the following three files.

```bash
###
### On block producer node
###
KES=${NODE_HOME}/kes.skey
VRF=${NODE_HOME}/vrf.skey
CERT=${NODE_HOME}/node.cert
```

**All other keys must remain offline in your air-gapped offline cold environment.**
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
:fire: **Relay Node Security Reminder:** Relay nodes must not contain any **`operational certifications`, `vrf`, `skey` or `cold`**` ``` **keys**.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
Congratulations! Your stake pool is registered and ready to produce blocks.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

Add link to list of available relay nodes

coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-iii-operation/configuring-legacy-network-topology.md, after:

# Configuring Legacy Network Topology

{% hint style="info" %}
Configuring network topology is a **critical step** as skipping this step will result in your minted blocks being orphaned by the rest of the network.
{% endhint %}

## :rocket: Activating Your Relay Node

{% hint style="info" %}
Credits to [GROWPOOL](https://twitter.com/PoolGrow) for this addition and credits to [Guild Operators](https://cardano-community.github.io/guild-operators/Scripts/topologyupdater/) on creating this process.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**How the Legacy Topology API works**

1. Your relay node pings an API server.
2. When the API server is convinced that your relay node is stable and is actually a running Cardano node, based on the ability to report the current block number accurately a number of times over a period of time, then the domain name or IP address of your node is automatically added to a list of other nodes that have been vetted similarly for quality and stability.
3. When your relay node is on the list, the relay node can request from the API server a list of other active Cardano nodes with which your node can synchronize in order to participate in the network of nodes as a peer. Also, the domain name or IP address of your relay node is distributed on lists that other active Cardano nodes may request from the same API server. **NOTE**: Other nodes refreshing their list of peer nodes with a list that may include the domain name or IP address of your relay node is dependent on how often other nodes request an updated list from the API server. Request an updated list of nodes from the API server for your relay regularly so that your list of peers remains accurate.
4. In order to stay on the list of active nodes, your relay node must ping the API server once every hour. If your relay node stops pinging the API server, then your relay node is removed from the list of active nodes after three hours.

Credits for the high level explanation: [Paradoxical Sphere - Change (CHG) Cardano Stake Pool Operator](https://change.paradoxicalsphere.com)
{% endhint %}

Create the `topologyUpdater.sh` script to publish your node information to a topology fetch list.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/topologyUpdater.sh << EOF
#!/bin/bash
# shellcheck disable=SC2086,SC2034
 
USERNAME=$(whoami)
CNODE_PORT=6000 # must match your relay node port as set in the startup command
CNODE_HOSTNAME="CHANGE ME"  # optional. must resolve to the IP you are requesting from
CNODE_BIN="/usr/local/bin"
CNODE_HOME=$NODE_HOME
CNODE_LOG_DIR="\${CNODE_HOME}/logs"
GENESIS_JSON="\${CNODE_HOME}/shelley-genesis.json"
NETWORKID=\$(jq -r .networkId \$GENESIS_JSON)
CNODE_VALENCY=1   # optional for multi-IP hostnames
NWMAGIC=\$(jq -r .networkMagic < \$GENESIS_JSON)
[[ "\${NETWORKID}" = "Mainnet" ]] && HASH_IDENTIFIER="--mainnet" || HASH_IDENTIFIER="--testnet-magic \${NWMAGIC}"
[[ "\${NWMAGIC}" = "764824073" ]] && NETWORK_IDENTIFIER="--mainnet" || NETWORK_IDENTIFIER="--testnet-magic \${NWMAGIC}"
 
export PATH="\${CNODE_BIN}:\${PATH}"
export CARDANO_NODE_SOCKET_PATH="\${CNODE_HOME}/db/socket"
 
blockNo=\$(/usr/local/bin/cardano-cli query tip \${NETWORK_IDENTIFIER} | jq -r .block )
 
# Note:
# if you run your node in IPv4/IPv6 dual stack network configuration and want announced the
# IPv4 address only please add the -4 parameter to the curl command below  (curl -4 -s ...)
if [ "\${CNODE_HOSTNAME}" != "CHANGE ME" ]; then
  T_HOSTNAME="&hostname=\${CNODE_HOSTNAME}"
else
  T_HOSTNAME=''
fi

if [ ! -d \${CNODE_LOG_DIR} ]; then
  mkdir -p \${CNODE_LOG_DIR};
fi
 
curl -s "https://api.clio.one/htopology/v1/?port=\${CNODE_PORT}&blockNo=\${blockNo}&valency=\${CNODE_VALENCY}&magic=\${NWMAGIC}\${T_HOSTNAME}" | tee -a \$CNODE_LOG_DIR/topologyUpdater_lastresult.json
EOF
```

Add permissions and run the updater script.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cd $NODE_HOME
chmod +x topologyUpdater.sh
./topologyUpdater.sh
```

When the `topologyUpdater.sh` runs successfully, you will see

> `{ "resultcode": "201", "datetime":"2020-07-28 01:23:45", "clientIp": "1.2.3.4", "iptype": 4, "msg": "nice to meet you" }`

{% hint style="info" %}
Every time the script runs and updates your IP, a log is created in **`$NODE_HOME/logs`**
{% endhint %}

Add a crontab job to automatically run `topologyUpdater.sh` every hour on the 33rd minute. You can change the 33 value to your own preference.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/crontab-fragment.txt << EOF
33 * * * * ${NODE_HOME}/topologyUpdater.sh
EOF
crontab -l | cat - ${NODE_HOME}/crontab-fragment.txt > ${NODE_HOME}/crontab.txt && crontab ${NODE_HOME}/crontab.txt
rm ${NODE_HOME}/crontab-fragment.txt
```

{% hint style="success" %}
After four hours and four updates, your node IP will be registered in the topology fetch list.
{% endhint %}

## :newspaper: Updating Legacy Topology Files on a Relay Node

{% hint style="danger" %}
Complete this section after **four hours** when your relay node IP is properly registered.
{% endhint %}

Create `relay-topology_pull.sh` script which fetches your relay node buddies and updates your topology file. **Update with your block producer's IP address.**

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="mainnet" %}
```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/relay-topology_pull.sh << EOF
#!/bin/bash
BLOCKPRODUCING_IP=<BLOCK PRODUCERS IP ADDRESS>
BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT=6000
curl -s -o $NODE_HOME/topology-legacy.json "https://api.clio.one/htopology/v1/fetch/?max=20&customPeers=\${BLOCKPRODUCING_IP}:\${BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT}:1|relays-new.cardano-mainnet.iohk.io:3001:2"
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="testnet" %}
```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
cat > $NODE_HOME/relay-topology_pull.sh << EOF
#!/bin/bash
BLOCKPRODUCING_IP=<BLOCK PRODUCERS IP ADDRESS>
BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT=6000
curl -s -o $NODE_HOME/testnet-topology.json "https://api.clio.one/htopology/v1/fetch/?max=20&magic=1097911063&customPeers=${BLOCKPRODUCING_IP}:${BLOCKPRODUCING_PORT}:1|relays-new.cardano-testnet.iohkdev.io:3001:2"
EOF
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Add permissions and pull updated topology files.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
chmod +x relay-topology_pull.sh
./relay-topology_pull.sh
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Weekly, [Cardano Explorer](https://explorer.cardano.org/) publishes a current list of IP addresses and ports for all available relay nodes registered on the Cardano blockchain in a [`topology.json`](https://explorer.cardano.org/relays/topology.json) file.
{% endhint %}

To implement the updated topology, restart your stake pool.

```bash
###
### On relaynode1
###
sudo systemctl restart cardano-node
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
Don't forget to restart your relay nodes after every time you fetch topology!
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
:octagonal\_sign: **Critical Key Security Reminder**: The only stake pool **keys** and **certs** that are required to run a stake pool are those required by the block producer. Namely, the following three files.

```bash
###
### On block producer node
###
KES=${NODE_HOME}/kes.skey
VRF=${NODE_HOME}/vrf.skey
CERT=${NODE_HOME}/node.cert
```

**All other keys must remain offline in your air-gapped offline cold environment.**
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
:fire: **Relay Node Security Reminder:** Relay nodes must not contain any **`operational certifications`, `vrf`, `skey` or `cold`**` ``` **keys**.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
Congratulations! Your stake pool is registered and ready to produce blocks.
{% endhint %}
