coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-iii-operation/setting-up-dashboards.md, before:

# Setting Up Dashboards

{% hint style="info" %}
* **Prometheus** is a monitoring platform that collects metrics from monitored targets by scraping metrics HTTP endpoints on these targets. [Official documentation is available here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/)
* **Grafana** is a dashboard used to visualize the collected data.
{% endhint %}

## :hatching\_chick: Installing Prometheus and Grafana

Install prometheus and prometheus node exporter.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```
sudo apt-get install -y prometheus prometheus-node-exporter 
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```bash
sudo apt-get install -y prometheus-node-exporter 
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Install grafana.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
wget -q -O - https://packages.grafana.com/gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
echo "deb https://packages.grafana.com/oss/deb stable main" > grafana.list
sudo mv grafana.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/grafana.list
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y grafana
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Enable services so they start automatically.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl enable grafana-server.service
sudo systemctl enable prometheus.service
sudo systemctl enable prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```
sudo systemctl enable prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Update **prometheus.yml** located in `/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml`

Change the **\<block producer ip address>** in the following command.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
cat > prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
  # The job name is added as a label job=<job_name> to any timeseries scraped from this config.
  - job_name: 'prometheus'

    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9100']
        labels:
          alias: 'relaynode1'
          type:  'cardano-node'
      - targets: ['<block producer ip address>:9100']
        labels:
          alias: 'block-producer-node'
          type:  'cardano-node'
      - targets: ['<block producer ip address>:12798']
        labels:
          alias: 'block-producer-node'
          type:  'cardano-node'
      - targets: ['localhost:12798']
        labels:
          alias: 'relaynode1'
          type:  'cardano-node'
EOF
sudo mv prometheus.yml /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Finally, restart the services.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```
sudo systemctl restart grafana-server.service
sudo systemctl restart prometheus.service
sudo systemctl restart prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Verify that the services are running properly:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```
sudo systemctl status grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Update `config.json` config files with new `hasEKG` and `hasPrometheus` ports.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```bash
cd $NODE_HOME

sed -i config.json -e "s/127.0.0.1/0.0.0.0/g"  
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="relaynodeN" %}
```bash
cd $NODE_HOME

sed -i config.json -e "s/127.0.0.1/0.0.0.0/g"  
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Port forwarding and firewall config:

On block producer node (or relaynodeN), you need to open ports 12798 and 9100

On relaynode1, you will need to open ports 3000 for grafana.
{% endhint %}

Stop and restart your stake pool.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl restart cardano-node
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl restart cardano-node
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Verify the metrics are working by querying the prometheus port.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="block producer and relaynodes" %}
```bash
curl -s 127.0.0.1:12798/metrics

# Example output:
# rts_gc_par_tot_bytes_copied 123
# rts_gc_num_gcs 345
# rts_gc_max_bytes_slop 4711111
# cardano_node_metrics_served_block_count_int 8112
# cardano_node_metrics_Stat_threads_int 8
# cardano_node_metrics_density_real 4.67
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## :signal\_strength: Configuring Grafana

1. On relaynode1, open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) or http://\<your relaynode1 ip address>:3000 in your local browser. You may need to open up port 3000 in your router and/or firewall.
2. Login with **admin** / **admin**
3. Change password
4. Click the **configuration gear** icon, then **Add data Source**
5. Select **Prometheus**
6. Set **Name** to **"Prometheus**"
7. Set **URL** to **http://localhost:9090**
8. Click **Save & Test**
9. **Download and save** this [**json file**](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coincashew/coincashew/master/.gitbook/assets/grafana-monitor-cardano-nodes-by-kaze%20(1).json)**.**
10. Click **Create +** icon > **Import**
11. Add dashboard by **Upload JSON file**
12. Click the **Import** button.

![Credits to KAZE stake pool for this dashboard](../../../../.gitbook/assets/dashboard-kaze.jpg)

{% hint style="info" %}
Community contributer [**SNSKY**](https://sanskys.github.io/grafana/) is sharing a very detailed Grafana tutorial :pray: [https://sanskys.github.io/grafana/](https://sanskys.github.io/grafana/)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
Congratulations. You're basically done. More great operational and maintenance tips in section 18.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Be sure to review the [Stake Pool Operator's Best Practices Checklist](../appendix-a-best-practices-checklist.md) to ensure smooth sailing with your pool.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-989: Update cardano_node_metrics_peers_connectedPeers_int in dashboard json file, add ssh tunnels

coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-iii-operation/setting-up-dashboards.md, after:

# Setting Up Dashboards

{% hint style="info" %}
* **Prometheus** is a monitoring platform that collects metrics from monitored targets by scraping metrics HTTP endpoints on these targets. [Official documentation is available here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/)
* **Grafana** is a dashboard used to visualize the collected data.
{% endhint %}

## :hatching\_chick: Installing Prometheus and Grafana

Install prometheus and prometheus node exporter.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```
sudo apt-get install -y prometheus prometheus-node-exporter 
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```bash
sudo apt-get install -y prometheus-node-exporter 
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Install grafana.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
wget -q -O - https://packages.grafana.com/gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
echo "deb https://packages.grafana.com/oss/deb stable main" > grafana.list
sudo mv grafana.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/grafana.list
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y grafana
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Enable services so they start automatically.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl enable grafana-server.service
sudo systemctl enable prometheus.service
sudo systemctl enable prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```
sudo systemctl enable prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Update **prometheus.yml** located in `/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml`

Change the **\<block producer ip address>** in the following command.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
cat > prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
  # The job name is added as a label job=<job_name> to any timeseries scraped from this config.
  - job_name: 'prometheus'

    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9100']
        labels:
          alias: 'relaynode1'
          type:  'cardano-node'
      - targets: ['<block producer ip address>:9100']
        labels:
          alias: 'block-producer-node'
          type:  'cardano-node'
      - targets: ['<block producer ip address>:12798']
        labels:
          alias: 'block-producer-node'
          type:  'cardano-node'
      - targets: ['localhost:12798']
        labels:
          alias: 'relaynode1'
          type:  'cardano-node'
EOF
sudo mv prometheus.yml /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Finally, restart the services.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```
sudo systemctl restart grafana-server.service
sudo systemctl restart prometheus.service
sudo systemctl restart prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Verify that the services are running properly:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```
sudo systemctl status grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Update `config.json` config files with new `hasEKG` and `hasPrometheus` ports.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```bash
cd $NODE_HOME

sed -i config.json -e "s/127.0.0.1/0.0.0.0/g"  
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="relaynodeN" %}
```bash
cd $NODE_HOME

sed -i config.json -e "s/127.0.0.1/0.0.0.0/g"  
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% hint style="info" %}
A note on port forwarding and firewall configuration.

Block producer node ports 12798 and 9100 should be reachable from the relaynode1, which is hosting Prometheus and Grafana.

* Port 12798 is for Cardano-Node's prometheus metrics.
* Port 9100 is for node-exporter metrics.
{% endhint %}

Stop and restart your stake pool.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="block producer node" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl restart cardano-node
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="relaynode1" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl restart cardano-node
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Verify the metrics are working by querying the prometheus port.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="block producer and relaynodes" %}
```bash
curl -s 127.0.0.1:12798/metrics

# Example output:
# rts_gc_par_tot_bytes_copied 123
# rts_gc_num_gcs 345
# rts_gc_max_bytes_slop 4711111
# cardano_node_metrics_served_block_count_int 8112
# cardano_node_metrics_Stat_threads_int 8
# cardano_node_metrics_density_real 4.67
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

<details>

<summary><span data-gb-custom-inline data-tag="emoji" data-code="1f525">🔥</span> Grafana Security: <strong>SSH Tunnels</strong></summary>

Do not expose Grafana (port 3000) to the public internet as this invites a new attack surface! A secure solution would be to access Grafana through a ssh tunnel.

Example of how to create a ssh tunnel in Linux or MacOS:

```
ssh -N -v <user>@<staking.node.ip.address> -L 3000:localhost:3000
```

Example of how to create a ssh tunnel in Windows with [Putty](https://putty.org/):

Navigate to Connection > SSH > Tunnels > Enter Source Port `3000` > Enter Destination `localhost:3000` > Click Add

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/image.png)

Now you can access Grafana on your local machine by pointing a web browser to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

</details>

## :signal\_strength: Configuring Grafana

1. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) (if using ssh tunnel or on relaynode1) or http://\<your relaynode1 ip address>:3000 in your local browser.
2. Login with **admin** / **admin**
3. Change password
4. Click the **configuration gear** icon, then **Add data Source**
5. Select **Prometheus**
6. Set **Name** to **"Prometheus**"
7. Set **URL** to **http://localhost:9090**
8. Click **Save & Test**
9. **Download and save** this **json file.**
10. Click **Create +** icon > **Import**
11. Add dashboard by **Upload JSON file**
12. Click the **Import** button.

![Credits to KAZE stake pool for this dashboard](../../../../.gitbook/assets/dashboard-kaze.jpg)

{% hint style="info" %}
Community contributer [**SNSKY**](https://sanskys.github.io/grafana/) is sharing a very detailed Grafana tutorial :pray: [https://sanskys.github.io/grafana/](https://sanskys.github.io/grafana/)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
Congratulations. You're basically done. More great operational and maintenance tips in section 18.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Be sure to review the [Stake Pool Operator's Best Practices Checklist](../appendix-a-best-practices-checklist.md) to ensure smooth sailing with your pool.
{% endhint %}
