coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-ii-configuration/downloading-configuration-files.md, before:

# :inbox_tray: Downloading Configuration Files

Running Cardano Node requires multiple configuration files. You must download the configuration files on each computer hosting an instance of Cardano Node for your stake pool.

**To download Cardano Node configuration files:**

1. On the computer hosting your block-producing node, using a Web browser navigate to the Cardano Node [GitHub repository](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node), then browse to the latest release, then click to expand the **Downloads** dropdown list in the _Technical Specification_ section of the release notes, and then click the **Configuration Files** link.

2. On the Cardano Configurations page, click the following links to download configuration files for the `mainnet` cluster: `config`, `byronGenesis`, `shelleyGenesis`, `alonzoGenesis` and `topology` Save all configuration files using the default file names in the folder that you set for the `$NODE_HOME` environment variable.  
{% hint style="info" %}
You set the `NODE_HOME` environment variable and created the corresponding folder when [Installing GHC and Cabal](../part-i-installation/installing-ghc-and-cabal.md).
{% endhint %}
<!-- Resource related to prior documentation:
https://ftp.gnu.org/old-gnu/Manuals/wget-1.8.1/html_chapter/wget_5.html -->

3. On each computer hosting a relay node for your stake pool, repeat steps 1 to 2

Commit message:

Miscellaneous Revisions
- Reconcile PR125 with current site
- Edits to reflect changes related to Cardano Node 1.35.3 release

coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-ii-configuration/downloading-configuration-files.md, after:

# :inbox_tray: Downloading Configuration Files

Running Cardano Node requires multiple configuration files. You must download the configuration files on each computer hosting an instance of Cardano Node for your stake pool.

**To download Cardano Node configuration files:**

1. On the computer hosting your block-producing node, using a Web browser navigate to the Cardano Node [GitHub repository](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node), then browse to the latest release, then click to expand the **Downloads** dropdown list in the _Technical Specification_ section of the release notes, and then click the **Configuration Files** link.

2. On the Environments page, scroll down to the **Production (Mainnet)** section, and then click the following links: **Node Config**, **Byron Genesis**, **Shelley Genesis**, **Alonzo Genesis** and **Node Topology** Save all configuration files using the default file names in the folder that you set for the `$NODE_HOME` environment variable.  
{% hint style="info" %}
You set the `NODE_HOME` environment variable and created the corresponding folder when [Installing GHC and Cabal](../part-i-installation/installing-ghc-and-cabal.md).
{% endhint %}
<!-- Resource related to prior documentation:
https://ftp.gnu.org/old-gnu/Manuals/wget-1.8.1/html_chapter/wget_5.html
Notes:
to download configuration files for the `mainnet` cluster
`config`, `byronGenesis`, `shelleyGenesis`, `alonzoGenesis` and `topology` -->

3. On each computer hosting a relay node for your stake pool, repeat steps 1 to 2
