coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-i-installation/installing-ghc-and-cabal.md, before:

# Installing the Glasgow Haskell Compiler and Cabal

To compile Cardano Node using source code, you must install the Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC) and Cabal for building applications and libraries.

<!-- Reference:
https://www.haskell.org/cabal/ -->

For each Cardano Node release, Input-Output recommends compiling binaries using specific versions of GHC and Cabal. For example, refer to [Installing cardano-node and cardano-cli from source](https://developers.cardano.org/docs/get-started/installing-cardano-node/) in the [Cardano Developer Portal](https://developers.cardano.org/docs/get-started/) to determine the GHC and Cabal versions required for the current Cardano Node release. _Table 1_ lists GHC and Cabal version requirements for the current Cardano Node release.

_Table 1 Current Cardano Node Version Requirements_

|   Release Date   | Cardano Node Version | GHC Version | Cabal Version |
| :--------------: | :------------------: | :---------: | :-----------: |
|  June 25, 2022   |        1.35.x        |    8.10.7   |    3.6.2.0    |

**To install GHC and Cabal:**

1. In a terminal window on the computer hosting your block-producing node, to install the latest versions of all previously installed packages assuming the answer `yes` to all prompts, type:
```bash
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get upgrade -y
```

2. To install packages and tools required for downloading and compiling Cardano Node source code, type:
```bash
sudo apt-get install autoconf automake build-essential curl g++ git jq libffi-dev libgmp-dev libncursesw5 libssl-dev libsystemd-dev libtinfo-dev libtool make pkg-config tmux wget zlib1g-dev -y
```
{% hint style="info" %}
To list all packages installed on your computer, type `apt list --installed`
{% endhint %}

<!-- In addition, the previous procedure recommended typing the command sudo apt-get install bc rsync htop libncurses-dev libtinfo5 Currently in the guide, instructions for installing bc and rsync are included when needed, and htop is not used. libncurses-dev and libtinfo5 are installed automatically. -->

<!-- GHCup requires build-essential curl libffi-dev libffi7 libgmp-dev libgmp10 libncurses-dev libncurses5 libtinfo5 -->

3. To use the GHCup installer to install GHC and Cabal, type:
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://get-ghcup.haskell.org | sh
```

4. During installation, when prompted:  
  i. Press ENTER to proceed.  
  ii. To prepend the required PATH variable to `$HOME/.bashrc`, type `P`  
  iii. When prompted to install haskell-language-server (HLS), type `N`  
  iv. When prompted to install slack, type `N`  
  v. Press ENTER to proceed.  
{% hint style="info" %}
The `$HOME` environment variable or `~` tilde prefix refers to the home directory associated with your login name. The `.bashrc` file is a Bash script that runs each time you open a new terminal window. In the `.bashrc` file, you can add any command that you may type at the command prompt. Use `.bashrc` to set up the shell as needed for your environment.
{% endhint %}

<!-- References:
http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Tilde-Expansion.html
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39331531/difference-between-login-name-and-user-name
https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/129143/what-is-the-purpose-of-bashrc-and-how-does-it-work -->

5. When GHCup finishes installing GHC and Cabal, type the following commands to reload your shell profile, and then confirm that GHCup installed correctly:
```bash
source $HOME/.bashrc
ghcup --version
```
{% hint style="info" %}
If GHCup is installed correctly, then the `ghcup --version` command returns `The GHCup Haskell installer, version <GHCupVersionNumber>` where `<GHCupVersionNumber>` is the version number of GHCup installed on your computer.
{% endhint %}

6. To set the Glasgow Haskell Compiler to the version required for compiling the current Cardano Node release, type the following commands where `<GHCVersionNumber>` is the GHC version that you need to install and use:
```bash
ghcup install ghc <GHCVersionNumber>
ghcup set ghc <GHCVersionNumber>
ghc --version
```

7. To set Cabal to the version required for compiling the current Cardano Node release, type the following commands where `<CabalVersionNumber>` is the Cabal version that you need to install and use:
```bash
ghcup install cabal <CabalVersionNumber>
ghcup set cabal <CabalVersionNumber>
cabal --version
```

8. To create a working directory to store source code and builds related to Cardano Node, type:
```bash
mkdir $HOME/git
cd $HOME/git
```

9. To download, compile and install `libsodium`, type:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium
cd libsodium
git checkout 66f017f1
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
```  
{% hint style="info" %}
If you are using the **Debian** GNU/Linux distribution, then additional linking may be required:
```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/local/lib/libsodium.so.23.3.0 /usr/lib/libsodium.so.23
```
If you are using the **CentOS** Linux distribution on Amazon Web Services, then clearing the lib cache may be required:
```bash
sudo ldconfig
```
If you are using Ubuntu on a **Raspberry Pi 4**, then type the following command to resolve a `cannot find -lnuma` error message when compiling `libsodium`:
```bash
sudo apt-get install libnuma-dev
```
{% endhint %}

10. <a name="libsecp"></a>To download, compile and install `libsecp256k1`, type:
```
cd $HOME/git
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1
cd secp256k1
git checkout ac83be33
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-experimental
make
make check
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig
```

11. Using a text editor, open the `$HOME/.bashrc` file, and then add the following lines at the end of the file:
```bash
# Set environment variables so that the compiler finds libsodium on your computer
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"
# Set an environment variable indicating the file path to configuration files and scripts
# related to operating your Cardano node
export NODE_HOME="$HOME/cardano-my-node"
# Set an environment variable indicating the Cardano network cluster where your node runs
export NODE_CONFIG="mainnet"
```
{% hint style="info" %}
If you plan to use your Cardano node on the testnet network instead of mainnet, then replace the line `export NODE_CONFIG="mainnet"` in your `$HOME/.bashrc` file with `export NODE_CONFIG="testnet"` Also, when working through the _How to Set Up a Cardano Stake Pool_ guide, replace every instance of the command option `--mainnet` with `--testnet-magic 1097911063`
{% endhint %}

12. Save and close the `$HOME/.bashrc` file.

13. To create the folder set for the `NODE_HOME` environment variable in your `$HOME/.bashrc` file, type:
```bash
mkdir $HOME/cardano-my-node
```

14. To reload your shell profile, type:
```bash
source $HOME/.bashrc
```

15. On each computer hosting a relay node for your stake pool, repeat steps 1 to 13

Commit message:

Miscellaneous Revisions
- Reflecting new testnet environments
- Fixing or removing broken external links
- Improving information related to swap file (memory) requirements

coins/overview-ada/guide-how-to-build-a-haskell-stakepool-node/part-i-installation/installing-ghc-and-cabal.md, after:

# Installing the Glasgow Haskell Compiler and Cabal

To compile Cardano Node using source code, you must install the Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC) and Cabal for building applications and libraries.

<!-- Reference:
https://www.haskell.org/cabal/ -->

For each Cardano Node release, Input-Output recommends compiling binaries using specific versions of GHC and Cabal. For example, refer to [Installing cardano-node and cardano-cli from source](https://developers.cardano.org/docs/get-started/installing-cardano-node/) in the [Cardano Developer Portal](https://developers.cardano.org/docs/get-started/) to determine the GHC and Cabal versions required for the current Cardano Node release. _Table 1_ lists GHC and Cabal version requirements for the current Cardano Node release.

_Table 1 Current Cardano Node Version Requirements_

|   Release Date   | Cardano Node Version | GHC Version | Cabal Version |
| :--------------: | :------------------: | :---------: | :-----------: |
|  June 25, 2022   |        1.35.x        |    8.10.7   |    3.6.2.0    |

**To install GHC and Cabal:**

1. In a terminal window on the computer hosting your block-producing node, to install the latest versions of all previously installed packages assuming the answer `yes` to all prompts, type:
```bash
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get upgrade -y
```

2. To install packages and tools required for downloading and compiling Cardano Node source code, type:
```bash
sudo apt-get install autoconf automake build-essential curl g++ git jq libffi-dev libgmp-dev libncursesw5 libssl-dev libsystemd-dev libtinfo-dev libtool make pkg-config tmux wget zlib1g-dev -y
```
{% hint style="info" %}
To list all packages installed on your computer, type `apt list --installed`
{% endhint %}

<!-- In addition, the previous procedure recommended typing the command sudo apt-get install bc rsync htop libncurses-dev libtinfo5 Currently in the guide, instructions for installing bc and rsync are included when needed, and htop is not used. libncurses-dev and libtinfo5 are installed automatically. -->

<!-- GHCup requires build-essential curl libffi-dev libffi7 libgmp-dev libgmp10 libncurses-dev libncurses5 libtinfo5 -->

3. To use the GHCup installer to install GHC and Cabal, type:
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://get-ghcup.haskell.org | sh
```

4. During installation, when prompted:  
  i. Press ENTER to proceed.  
  ii. To prepend the required PATH variable to `$HOME/.bashrc`, type `P`  
  iii. When prompted to install haskell-language-server (HLS), type `N`  
  iv. When prompted to install slack, type `N`  
  v. Press ENTER to proceed.  
{% hint style="info" %}
The `$HOME` environment variable or `~` tilde prefix refers to the home directory associated with your login name. The `.bashrc` file is a Bash script that runs each time you open a new terminal window. In the `.bashrc` file, you can add any command that you may type at the command prompt. Use `.bashrc` to set up the shell as needed for your environment.
{% endhint %}

<!-- References:
http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Tilde-Expansion.html
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39331531/difference-between-login-name-and-user-name
https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/129143/what-is-the-purpose-of-bashrc-and-how-does-it-work -->

5. When GHCup finishes installing GHC and Cabal, type the following commands to reload your shell profile, and then confirm that GHCup installed correctly:
```bash
source $HOME/.bashrc
ghcup --version
```
{% hint style="info" %}
If GHCup is installed correctly, then the `ghcup --version` command returns `The GHCup Haskell installer, version <GHCupVersionNumber>` where `<GHCupVersionNumber>` is the version number of GHCup installed on your computer.
{% endhint %}

6. To set the Glasgow Haskell Compiler to the version required for compiling the current Cardano Node release, type the following commands where `<GHCVersionNumber>` is the GHC version that you need to install and use:
```bash
ghcup install ghc <GHCVersionNumber>
ghcup set ghc <GHCVersionNumber>
ghc --version
```

7. To set Cabal to the version required for compiling the current Cardano Node release, type the following commands where `<CabalVersionNumber>` is the Cabal version that you need to install and use:
```bash
ghcup install cabal <CabalVersionNumber>
ghcup set cabal <CabalVersionNumber>
cabal --version
```

8. To create a working directory to store source code and builds related to Cardano Node, type:
```bash
mkdir $HOME/git
cd $HOME/git
```

9. To download, compile and install `libsodium`, type:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium
cd libsodium
git checkout 66f017f1
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
```  
{% hint style="info" %}
If you are using the **Debian** GNU/Linux distribution, then additional linking may be required:
```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/local/lib/libsodium.so.23.3.0 /usr/lib/libsodium.so.23
```
If you are using the **CentOS** Linux distribution on Amazon Web Services, then clearing the lib cache may be required:
```bash
sudo ldconfig
```
If you are using Ubuntu on a **Raspberry Pi 4**, then type the following command to resolve a `cannot find -lnuma` error message when compiling `libsodium`:
```bash
sudo apt-get install libnuma-dev
```
{% endhint %}

10. <a name="libsecp"></a>To download, compile and install `libsecp256k1`, type:
```
cd $HOME/git
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1
cd secp256k1
git checkout ac83be33
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-experimental
make
make check
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig
```

11. Using a text editor, open the `$HOME/.bashrc` file, and then add the following lines at the end of the file:
```bash
# Set environment variables so that the compiler finds libsodium on your computer
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"
# Set an environment variable indicating the file path to configuration files and scripts
# related to operating your Cardano node
export NODE_HOME="$HOME/cardano-my-node"
# Set an environment variable indicating the Cardano network cluster where your node runs
export NODE_CONFIG="mainnet"
```
{% hint style="info" %}
If you plan to use your Cardano node on a testnet network instead of mainnet, then replace the line `export NODE_CONFIG="mainnet"` in your `$HOME/.bashrc` file with `export NODE_CONFIG="testnet"` Also, when working through the _How to Set Up a Cardano Stake Pool_ guide, replace every instance of the command option `--mainnet` with `--testnet-magic <MagicNumber>` where `<MagicNumber>` is the network magic number for the testnet network you want to use. For details on available testnet networks, see [Environments](https://book.world.dev.cardano.org/environments.html).
{% endhint %}

<!-- For Legacy testnet, <MagicNumber> is 1097911063 -->

12. Save and close the `$HOME/.bashrc` file.

13. To create the folder set for the `NODE_HOME` environment variable in your `$HOME/.bashrc` file, type:
```bash
mkdir $HOME/cardano-my-node
```

14. To reload your shell profile, type:
```bash
source $HOME/.bashrc
```

15. On each computer hosting a relay node for your stake pool, repeat steps 1 to 13
