coins/overview-eth/testnet-holesky-validator/step-4-installing-consensus-client/nimbus.md, before:

# Nimbus

## Overview

{% hint style="info" %}
[Nimbus](https://our.status.im/tag/nimbus/) is a research project and a client implementation for Ethereum designed to perform well on embedded systems and personal mobile devices, including older smartphones with resource-restricted hardware. The Nimbus team are from [Status](https://status.im/about/) the company best known for [their messaging app/wallet/Web3 browser](https://status.im) by the same name. Nimbus (Apache 2) is written in Nim, a language with Python-like syntax that compiles to C.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Note**: Nimbus is configured to run both **validator client** and **beacon chain client** in one process.
{% endhint %}

#### Official Links

| Subject       | Links                                                                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Releases      | [https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases) |
| Documentation | [https://nimbus.guide](https://nimbus.guide/)                                                          |
| Website       | [https://our.status.im/tag/nimbus](https://our.status.im/tag/nimbus/)                                  |

### 1. Initial configuration

Create a service user for the consensus service, create data directory and assign ownership.

```bash
sudo adduser --system --no-create-home --group consensus
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/nimbus
sudo chown -R consensus:consensus /var/lib/nimbus
```

Install dependencies.

```bash
sudo apt install curl libsnappy-dev libc6-dev jq libc6 unzip ccze -y
```

### 2. Install Binaries

* Downloading binaries is often faster and more convenient.
* Building from source code can offer better compatibility and is more aligned with the spirit of FOSS (free open source software).

<details>

<summary>Option 1 - Download binaries</summary>

Run the following to automatically download the latest linux release, un-tar and cleanup.

```bash
RELEASE_URL="https://api.github.com/repos/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases/latest"
BINARIES_URL="$(curl -s $RELEASE_URL | jq -r ".assets[] | select(.name) | .browser_download_url" | grep _Linux_amd64.*.tar.gz$)"

echo Downloading URL: $BINARIES_URL

cd $HOME
# Download
wget -O nimbus.tar.gz $BINARIES_URL
# Untar
tar -xzvf nimbus.tar.gz -C $HOME
# Rename folder
mv nimbus-eth2_Linux_amd64_* nimbus
# Cleanup
rm nimbus.tar.gz
```

Install the binaries.

<pre class="language-bash"><code class="lang-bash"><strong>sudo mv nimbus/build/nimbus_beacon_node /usr/local/bin/nimbus_beacon_node
</strong></code></pre>

</details>

<details>

<summary>Option 2 - Build from source code</summary>

Install dependencies.

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install curl build-essential git -y
```

Build the binary.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/git
cd ~/git
git clone -b stable https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2
cd nimbus-eth2
make -j$(nproc) update
make -j$(nproc) nimbus_beacon_node
```

Verify Nimbus was built properly by displaying the version.

```bash
cd $HOME/git/nimbus-eth2/build
./nimbus_beacon_node --version
```

Install the binary.

```bash
sudo cp $HOME/git/nimbus-eth2/build/nimbus_beacon_node /usr/local/bin
```

</details>

### **3. Setup and configure systemd**

Create a **systemd unit file** to define your `consensus.service` configuration.

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/consensus.service
```

Paste the following configuration into the file.

```shell
[Unit]
Description=Nimbus Consensus Layer Client service for Holesky
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target
Documentation=https://www.coincashew.com

[Service]
Type=simple
User=consensus
Group=consensus
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
KillSignal=SIGINT
TimeoutStopSec=900
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/nimbus_beacon_node \
  --network=holesky \
  --data-dir=/var/lib/nimbus \
  --web3-url=http://127.0.0.1:8551 \
  --rest \
  --metrics \
  --metrics-port=8008 \
  --jwt-secret="/secrets/jwtsecret" \
  --suggested-fee-recipient=<0x_CHANGE_THIS_TO_MY_ETH_FEE_RECIPIENT_ADDRESS>

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

* Replace`<0x_CHANGE_THIS_TO_MY_ETH_FEE_RECIPIENT_ADDRESS>` with your own Ethereum address that you control. Tips are sent to this address and are immediately spendable.
* **Not staking?** If you only want a full node, delete the whole line beginning with

```
--suggested-fee-recipient
```

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then `Enter`.

Run the following to enable auto-start at boot time.

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable consensus
```

Finally, start your consensus layer client and check it's status.

```bash
sudo systemctl start consensus
sudo systemctl status consensus
```

Press `Ctrl` + `C` to exit the status.

Check your logs to confirm that the consensus clients are up and syncing.

```bash
sudo journalctl -fu consensus | ccze
```

**Example of Synced Consensus Client Logs**

```
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:00.000+00:00 Slot start       topics="beacnde" slot=31205 epoch=903 sync=synced peers=80 head=13a131:31204 finalized=1111:cdba33411 delay=69us850ns
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:08.000+00:00 Slot end         topics="beacnde" slot=31205 nextActionWait=7m27s985ms126us530ns nextAttestationSlot=31235 nextProposalSlot=-1 syncCommitteeDuties=none head=13a131:31204
```

### 4. Helpful consensus client commands

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="View Logs" %}
```bash
sudo journalctl -fu consensus | ccze
```

**Example of Synced Nimbus Consensus Client Logs**

```bash
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:00.000+00:00 Slot start       topics="beacnde" slot=31205 epoch=903 sync=synced peers=80 head=13a131:31204 finalized=1111:cdba33411 delay=69us850ns
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:08.000+00:00 Slot end         topics="beacnde" slot=31205 nextActionWait=7m27s985ms126us530ns nextAttestationSlot=31235 nextProposalSlot=-1 syncCommitteeDuties=none head=13a131:31204
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Stop" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl stop consensus
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Start" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl start consensus
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="View Status" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl status consensus
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Now that your consensus client is configured and started, you have a full node.

Proceed to the next step on setting up your validator client, which turns a full node into a staking node.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you wanted to setup a full node, not a staking node, stop here! Congrats on running your own full node! :tada:
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-1082: Restore checkpoint sync for holesky

coins/overview-eth/testnet-holesky-validator/step-4-installing-consensus-client/nimbus.md, after:

# Nimbus

## Overview

{% hint style="info" %}
[Nimbus](https://our.status.im/tag/nimbus/) is a research project and a client implementation for Ethereum designed to perform well on embedded systems and personal mobile devices, including older smartphones with resource-restricted hardware. The Nimbus team are from [Status](https://status.im/about/) the company best known for [their messaging app/wallet/Web3 browser](https://status.im) by the same name. Nimbus (Apache 2) is written in Nim, a language with Python-like syntax that compiles to C.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Note**: Nimbus is configured to run both **validator client** and **beacon chain client** in one process.
{% endhint %}

#### Official Links

| Subject       | Links                                                                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Releases      | [https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases) |
| Documentation | [https://nimbus.guide](https://nimbus.guide/)                                                          |
| Website       | [https://our.status.im/tag/nimbus](https://our.status.im/tag/nimbus/)                                  |

### 1. Initial configuration

Create a service user for the consensus service, create data directory and assign ownership.

```bash
sudo adduser --system --no-create-home --group consensus
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/nimbus
sudo chown -R consensus:consensus /var/lib/nimbus
```

Install dependencies.

```bash
sudo apt install curl libsnappy-dev libc6-dev jq libc6 unzip ccze -y
```

### 2. Install Binaries

* Downloading binaries is often faster and more convenient.
* Building from source code can offer better compatibility and is more aligned with the spirit of FOSS (free open source software).

<details>

<summary>Option 1 - Download binaries</summary>

Run the following to automatically download the latest linux release, un-tar and cleanup.

```bash
RELEASE_URL="https://api.github.com/repos/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases/latest"
BINARIES_URL="$(curl -s $RELEASE_URL | jq -r ".assets[] | select(.name) | .browser_download_url" | grep _Linux_amd64.*.tar.gz$)"

echo Downloading URL: $BINARIES_URL

cd $HOME
# Download
wget -O nimbus.tar.gz $BINARIES_URL
# Untar
tar -xzvf nimbus.tar.gz -C $HOME
# Rename folder
mv nimbus-eth2_Linux_amd64_* nimbus
# Cleanup
rm nimbus.tar.gz
rm -r nimbus
```

Install the binaries.

<pre class="language-bash"><code class="lang-bash"><strong>sudo mv nimbus/build/nimbus_beacon_node /usr/local/bin/nimbus_beacon_node
</strong></code></pre>

</details>

<details>

<summary>Option 2 - Build from source code</summary>

Install dependencies.

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install curl build-essential git -y
```

Build the binary.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/git
cd ~/git
git clone -b stable https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2
cd nimbus-eth2
make -j$(nproc) update
make -j$(nproc) nimbus_beacon_node
```

Verify Nimbus was built properly by displaying the version.

```bash
cd $HOME/git/nimbus-eth2/build
./nimbus_beacon_node --version
```

Install the binary.

```bash
sudo cp $HOME/git/nimbus-eth2/build/nimbus_beacon_node /usr/local/bin
```

</details>

### **3. Setup and configure systemd**

Create a **systemd unit file** to define your `consensus.service` configuration.

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/consensus.service
```

Paste the following configuration into the file.

```shell
[Unit]
Description=Nimbus Consensus Layer Client service for Holesky
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target
Documentation=https://www.coincashew.com

[Service]
Type=simple
User=consensus
Group=consensus
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
KillSignal=SIGINT
TimeoutStopSec=900
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/nimbus_beacon_node \
  --network=holesky \
  --data-dir=/var/lib/nimbus \
  --web3-url=http://127.0.0.1:8551 \
  --rest \
  --metrics \
  --metrics-port=8008 \
  --jwt-secret="/secrets/jwtsecret" \
  --suggested-fee-recipient=<0x_CHANGE_THIS_TO_MY_ETH_FEE_RECIPIENT_ADDRESS>

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

* Replace`<0x_CHANGE_THIS_TO_MY_ETH_FEE_RECIPIENT_ADDRESS>` with your own Ethereum address that you control. Tips are sent to this address and are immediately spendable.
* **Not staking?** If you only want a full node, delete the whole line beginning with

```
--suggested-fee-recipient
```

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then `Enter`.

Run the following to quickly sync with Checkpoint Sync.

{% hint style="info" %}
Checkpoint sync allows you to start your consensus layer within minutes instead of days.
{% endhint %}

```bash
sudo -u consensus /usr/local/bin/nimbus_beacon_node trustedNodeSync \
--network=holesky \
--trusted-node-url=https://holesky.beaconstate.ethstaker.cc \
--data-dir=/var/lib/nimbus \
--backfill=false
```

When the checkpoint sync is complete, you'll see the following message:

> Done, your beacon node is ready to serve you! Don't forget to check that you're on the canonical chain by comparing the checkpoint root with other online sources. See https://nimbus.guide/trusted-node-sync.html for more information.

Run the following to enable auto-start at boot time.

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable consensus
```

Finally, start your consensus layer client and check it's status.

```bash
sudo systemctl start consensus
sudo systemctl status consensus
```

Press `Ctrl` + `C` to exit the status.

Check your logs to confirm that the consensus clients are up and syncing.

```bash
sudo journalctl -fu consensus | ccze
```

**Example of Synced Consensus Client Logs**

```
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:00.000+00:00 Slot start       topics="beacnde" slot=31205 epoch=903 sync=synced peers=80 head=13a131:31204 finalized=1111:cdba33411 delay=69us850ns
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:08.000+00:00 Slot end         topics="beacnde" slot=31205 nextActionWait=7m27s985ms126us530ns nextAttestationSlot=31235 nextProposalSlot=-1 syncCommitteeDuties=none head=13a131:31204
```

### 4. Helpful consensus client commands

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="View Logs" %}
```bash
sudo journalctl -fu consensus | ccze
```

**Example of Synced Nimbus Consensus Client Logs**

```bash
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:00.000+00:00 Slot start       topics="beacnde" slot=31205 epoch=903 sync=synced peers=80 head=13a131:31204 finalized=1111:cdba33411 delay=69us850ns
nimbus_beacon_node[292966]: INF 2023-02-05 01:20:08.000+00:00 Slot end         topics="beacnde" slot=31205 nextActionWait=7m27s985ms126us530ns nextAttestationSlot=31235 nextProposalSlot=-1 syncCommitteeDuties=none head=13a131:31204
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Stop" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl stop consensus
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Start" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl start consensus
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="View Status" %}
```bash
sudo systemctl status consensus
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Now that your consensus client is configured and started, you have a full node.

Proceed to the next step on setting up your validator client, which turns a full node into a staking node.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you wanted to setup a full node, not a staking node, stop here! Congrats on running your own full node! :tada:
{% endhint %}
