coins/overview-eth/guide-or-how-to-setup-a-validator-on-eth2-mainnet/part-i-installation/monitoring-your-validator-with-grafana-and-prometheus.md, before:

# Monitoring your validator with Grafana and Prometheus

Prometheus is a monitoring platform that collects metrics from monitored targets by scraping metrics HTTP endpoints on these targets. [Official documentation is available here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) Grafana is a dashboard used to visualize the collected data.

### 6.1 Installation

Install prometheus and prometheus node exporter.

```
sudo apt-get install -y prometheus prometheus-node-exporter
```

Install grafana.

```bash
wget -q -O - https://packages.grafana.com/gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://packages.grafana.com/oss/deb stable main" > grafana.list
sudo mv grafana.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/grafana.list
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y grafana
```

Enable services so they start automatically.

```bash
sudo systemctl enable grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```

Create the **prometheus.yml** config file. Choose the tab for your eth client. Simply copy and paste.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Lighthouse" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'nodes'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:5054']
   - job_name: 'validators'
     metrics_path: /metrics
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:5064']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nimbus" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'nodes'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8008']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Teku" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'nodes'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8008']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Prysm" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'validator'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8081']
   - job_name: 'beacon node'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8080']
   - job_name: 'slasher'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8082']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Lodestar" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF   
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'Lodestar'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8008']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Setup prometheus for your execution client. Start by editing **prometheus.yml**

```bash
nano $HOME/prometheus.yml
```

Append the applicable job snippet for your execution client to the end of **prometheus.yml**. Save the file.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Spacing matters**. Ensure all `job_name` snippets are in alignment.
{% endhint %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Geth" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'geth'
     scrape_interval: 15s
     scrape_timeout: 10s
     metrics_path: /debug/metrics/prometheus
     scheme: http
     static_configs:
     - targets: ['localhost:6060']
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Besu" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'besu'
     scrape_interval: 15s
     scrape_timeout: 10s
     metrics_path: /metrics
     scheme: http
     static_configs:
     - targets:
       - localhost:9545
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nethermind" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'nethermind'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:6060']
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Erigon" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'erigon'
     scrape_interval: 10s
     scrape_timeout: 3s
     metrics_path: /debug/metrics/prometheus
     scheme: http
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:6060']
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Move it to `/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml`

```bash
sudo mv $HOME/prometheus.yml /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```

Update file permissions.

```bash
sudo chmod 644 /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```

Finally, restart the services.

```bash
sudo systemctl restart grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```

Verify that the services are running properly:

```
sudo systemctl status grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```

{% hint style="info" %}
:bulb: **Reminder**: Ensure port 3000 is open on the firewall and/or port forwarded if you intend to view monitoring info from a different machine.
{% endhint %}

### :signal\_strength: 6.2 Setting up Grafana Dashboards

1. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) or http://\<your validator's ip address>:3000 in your local browser.
2. Login with **admin** / **admin**
3. Change password
4. Click the **configuration gear** icon, then **Add data Source**
5. Select **Prometheus**
6. Set **Name** to **"Prometheus**"
7. Set **URL** to [http://localhost:9090](http://localhost:9090)
8. Click **Save & Test**
9. **Download and save** your consensus client's json file. More json dashboard options available below. \[ [Lighthouse](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard/main/Yoldark\_ETH\_staking\_dashboard.json) | [Teku ](https://grafana.com/api/dashboards/13457/revisions/2/download)| [Nimbus ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/master/grafana/beacon\_nodes\_Grafana\_dashboard.json)| [Prysm ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard/master/less\_10\_validators.json)| [Prysm > 10 Validators](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard/master/more\_10\_validators.json) | [Lodestar](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/unstable/dashboards/lodestar\_summary.json) ]
10. **Download and save** your execution client's json file \[ [Geth](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/karalabe/e7ca79abdec54755ceae09c08bd090cd/raw/3a400ab90f9402f2233280afd086cb9d6aac2111/dashboard.json) | [Besu ](https://grafana.com/api/dashboards/10273/revisions/5/download)| [Nethermind ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure/master/grafana/dashboards/nethermind.json)| [Erigon](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/devel/cmd/prometheus/dashboards/erigon.json) ]
11. **Download and save** a [node-exporter dashboard](https://grafana.com/api/dashboards/11074/revisions/9/download) for general system monitoring
12. Click **Create +** icon > **Import**
13. Add the consensus client dashboard via **Upload JSON file**
14. If needed, select Prometheus as **Data Source**.
15. Click the **Import** button.
16. Repeat steps 12-15 for the execution client dashboard.
17. Repeat steps 12-15 for the node-exporter dashboard.

{% hint style="warning" %}
:fire: **Troubleshooting common Grafana issues**

**Symptom**: Your dashboard is missing some data_._

**Solution**_:_ Ensure that the execution or consensus client has enabled the appropriate metrics flag.

* Geth: geth --http --metrics --pprof
* Besu: besu  --metrics-enabled=true
* Nethermind: Nethermind.Runner  --Metrics.Enabled true
* Erigon: erigon  --metrics
* Lighthouse beacon-node: lighthouse bn  --validator-monitor-auto
* Nimbus: nimbus\_beacon\_node  --metrics  --metrics-port=8008
* Teku: --metrics-enabled=true --metrics-port=8008
* Lodestar beacon-node: lodestar beacon --metrics true
{% endhint %}

#### Example of Grafana Dashboards for each consensus client.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Lighthouse" %}
![Beacon Chain dashboard by sigp](../../../../.gitbook/assets/lhm.png)

![Validator Client dashboard by sigp](../../../../.gitbook/assets/lighthouse-validator.png)

Beacon Chain JSON Download link: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/Summary.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/Summary.json)

Validator Client JSON download link: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/ValidatorClient.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/ValidatorClient.json)

Credits: [https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/)

![LH dashboard by Yoldark](../../../../.gitbook/assets/yoldark-lighthouse.png)

JSON Download link: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard/main/Yoldark\_ETH\_staking\_dashboard.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard/main/Yoldark\_ETH\_staking\_dashboard.json)

Credits: [https://github.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard](https://github.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nimbus" %}
![Dashboard by status-im](../../../../.gitbook/assets/nim\_dashboard.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/)

![Nimbus dashboard by metanull-operator](../../../../.gitbook/assets/eth2-grafana-dashboard-prysm.jpg)

JSON download link:

Credits: [https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/](https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Teku" %}
![Teku by PegaSys Engineering](../../../../.gitbook/assets/teku.dash.png)

Credits: [https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13457](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13457)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Prysm" %}
![Prysm dashboard by GuillaumeMiralles](../../../../.gitbook/assets/prysm\_dash.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard](https://github.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard)

![Prysm dashboard by metanull-operator](../../../../.gitbook/assets/eth2-grafana-dashboard-prysm.jpg)

JSON download link: [https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/raw/master/eth2-grafana-dashboard-single-source.json](https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/raw/master/eth2-grafana-dashboard-single-source.json)

Credits: [https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/](https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Lodestar" %}
Work in progress.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Example of Grafana Dashboards for each execution client.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Geth" %}
![Dashboard by karalabe](../../../../.gitbook/assets/geth-dash.png)

Credits: [https://gist.github.com/karalabe/e7ca79abdec54755ceae09c08bd090cd](https://gist.github.com/karalabe/e7ca79abdec54755ceae09c08bd090cd)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Besu" %}
![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/besu-dash.png)

Credits: [https://grafana.com/dashboards/10273](https://grafana.com/dashboards/10273)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nethermind" %}
![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/nethermind-dash.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure](https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Erigon" %}
![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/erigon-grafana.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/tree/devel/cmd/prometheus/dashboards](https://github.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/tree/devel/cmd/prometheus/dashboards)
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Example of Node-Exporter Dashboard

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Node-Exporter Dashboard by starsliao" %}
**General system monitoring**

Includes: CPU, memory, disk IO, network, temperature and other monitoring metrics。

![](<../../../../.gitbook/assets/grafana (1).png>)

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/node-exporter2.png)

Credits: [starsliao](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/11074)
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### :warning: 6.3 Setup Alert Notifications

{% hint style="info" %}
Setup alerts to get notified if your validators go offline.
{% endhint %}

Get notified of problems with your validators. Choose between email, telegram, discord or slack.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Email Notifications" %}
1. Visit [https://beaconcha.in/](https://beaconcha.in)
2. Sign up for an account.
3. Verify your **email**
4. Search for your **validator's public address**
5. Add validators to your watchlist by clicking the **bookmark symbol**.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Telegram Notifications" %}
1. On the menu of Grafana, select **Notification channels** under the bell icon.
2. Click on **Add channel**.
3. Give the notification channel a **name**.
4. Select **Telegram** from the Type list.
5. To complete the **Telegram API settings**, a **Telegram channel** and \*\*bot \*\*are required. For instructions on setting up a bot with `@Botfather`, see [this section](https://core.telegram.org/bots#6-botfather) of the Telegram documentation. You need to create a BOT API token.
6. Create a new telegram group.
7. Invite the bot to your new group.
8. Type at least 1 message into the group to initialize it.
9. Visit [`https://api.telegram.org/botXXX:YYY/getUpdates`](https://api.telegram.org/botXXX:YYY/getUpdates) where `XXX:YYY` is your BOT API Token.
10. In the JSON response, find and copy the **Chat ID**. Find it between \*\*chat \*\*and **title**. _Example of Chat ID_: `-1123123123`

    ```
    "chat":{"id":-123123123,"title":
    ```
11. Paste the **Chat ID** into the corresponding field in **Grafana**.
12. **Save and test** the notification channel for your alerts.
13. Now you can create custom alerts from your dashboards. [Visit here to learn how to create alerts.](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/create-alerts/)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Discord Notifications" %}
1. On the menu of Grafana, select **Notification channels** under the bell icon.
2. Click on **Add channel**.
3. Add a **name** to the notification channel.
4. Select **Discord** from the Type list.
5. To complete the set up, a Discord server (and a text channel available) as well as a Webhook URL are required. For instructions on setting up a Discord's Webhooks, see [this section](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) of their documentation.
6. Enter the Webhook **URL** in the Discord notification settings panel.
7. Click **Send Test**, which will push a confirmation message to the Discord channel.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Slack Notifications" %}
1. On the menu of Grafana, select **Notification channels** under the bell icon.
2. Click on **Add channel**.
3. Add a **name** to the notification channel.
4. Select **Slack** from the Type list.
5. For instructions on setting up a Slack's Incoming Webhooks, see [this section](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) of their documentation.
6. Enter the Slack Incoming Webhook URL in the **URL** field.
7. Click **Send Test**, which will push a confirmation message to the Slack channel.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-970: Update ssh tunnel for grafana

coins/overview-eth/guide-or-how-to-setup-a-validator-on-eth2-mainnet/part-i-installation/monitoring-your-validator-with-grafana-and-prometheus.md, after:

# Monitoring your validator with Grafana and Prometheus

Prometheus is a monitoring platform that collects metrics from monitored targets by scraping metrics HTTP endpoints on these targets. [Official documentation is available here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) Grafana is a dashboard used to visualize the collected data.

### 6.1 Installation

Install prometheus and prometheus node exporter.

```
sudo apt-get install -y prometheus prometheus-node-exporter
```

Install grafana.

```bash
wget -q -O - https://packages.grafana.com/gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://packages.grafana.com/oss/deb stable main" > grafana.list
sudo mv grafana.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/grafana.list
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y grafana
```

Enable services so they start automatically.

```bash
sudo systemctl enable grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```

Create the **prometheus.yml** config file. Choose the tab for your eth client. Simply copy and paste.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Lighthouse" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'nodes'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:5054']
   - job_name: 'validators'
     metrics_path: /metrics
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:5064']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nimbus" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'nodes'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8008']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Teku" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'nodes'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8008']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Prysm" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF
global:
  scrape_interval:     15s # By default, scrape targets every 15 seconds.

  # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
  # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
  external_labels:
    monitor: 'codelab-monitor'

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'validator'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8081']
   - job_name: 'beacon node'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8080']
   - job_name: 'slasher'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8082']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Lodestar" %}
```bash
cat > $HOME/prometheus.yml << EOF   
scrape_configs:
   - job_name: 'node_exporter'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:9100']
   - job_name: 'Lodestar'
     metrics_path: /metrics    
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:8008']
EOF
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Setup prometheus for your execution client. Start by editing **prometheus.yml**

```bash
nano $HOME/prometheus.yml
```

Append the applicable job snippet for your execution client to the end of **prometheus.yml**. Save the file.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Spacing matters**. Ensure all `job_name` snippets are in alignment.
{% endhint %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Geth" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'geth'
     scrape_interval: 15s
     scrape_timeout: 10s
     metrics_path: /debug/metrics/prometheus
     scheme: http
     static_configs:
     - targets: ['localhost:6060']
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Besu" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'besu'
     scrape_interval: 15s
     scrape_timeout: 10s
     metrics_path: /metrics
     scheme: http
     static_configs:
     - targets:
       - localhost:9545
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nethermind" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'nethermind'
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:6060']
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Erigon" %}
```bash
   - job_name: 'erigon'
     scrape_interval: 10s
     scrape_timeout: 3s
     metrics_path: /debug/metrics/prometheus
     scheme: http
     static_configs:
       - targets: ['localhost:6060']
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Move it to `/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml`

```bash
sudo mv $HOME/prometheus.yml /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```

Update file permissions.

```bash
sudo chmod 644 /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```

Finally, restart the services.

```bash
sudo systemctl restart grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```

Verify that the services are running properly:

```
sudo systemctl status grafana-server.service prometheus.service prometheus-node-exporter.service
```

<details>

<summary>Grafana Security: <strong>SSH Tunnels</strong></summary>

Do not expose Grafana (port 3000) to the public internet as this invites a new attack surface! A secure solution would be to access Grafana through a ssh tunnel.

Example of how to create a ssh tunnel in Linux or MacOS:

```
ssh -N -v <user>@<staking.node.ip.address> -L 3000:localhost:3000
```

Example of how to create a ssh tunnel in Windows with [Putty](https://putty.org/):

Navigate to Connection > SSH > Tunnels > Enter Source Port `3000` > Enter Destination `localhost:3000` > Click Add

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/image.png)

Now you can access Grafana on your local machine by pointing a web browser to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

</details>

### :signal\_strength: 6.2 Setting up Grafana Dashboards

1. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) or http://\<your validator's ip address>:3000 in your web browser.
2. Login with **admin** / **admin**
3. Change password
4. Click the **configuration gear** icon, then **Add data Source**
5. Select **Prometheus**
6. Set **Name** to **"Prometheus**"
7. Set **URL** to [http://localhost:9090](http://localhost:9090)
8. Click **Save & Test**
9. **Download and save** your consensus client's json file. More json dashboard options available below. \[ [Lighthouse](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard/main/Yoldark\_ETH\_staking\_dashboard.json) | [Teku ](https://grafana.com/api/dashboards/13457/revisions/2/download)| [Nimbus ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/master/grafana/beacon\_nodes\_Grafana\_dashboard.json)| [Prysm ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard/master/less\_10\_validators.json)| [Prysm > 10 Validators](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard/master/more\_10\_validators.json) | [Lodestar](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/unstable/dashboards/lodestar\_summary.json) ]
10. **Download and save** your execution client's json file \[ [Geth](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/karalabe/e7ca79abdec54755ceae09c08bd090cd/raw/3a400ab90f9402f2233280afd086cb9d6aac2111/dashboard.json) | [Besu ](https://grafana.com/api/dashboards/10273/revisions/5/download)| [Nethermind ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure/master/grafana/dashboards/nethermind.json)| [Erigon](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/devel/cmd/prometheus/dashboards/erigon.json) ]
11. **Download and save** a [node-exporter dashboard](https://grafana.com/api/dashboards/11074/revisions/9/download) for general system monitoring
12. Click **Create +** icon > **Import**
13. Add the consensus client dashboard via **Upload JSON file**
14. If needed, select Prometheus as **Data Source**.
15. Click the **Import** button.
16. Repeat steps 12-15 for the execution client dashboard.
17. Repeat steps 12-15 for the node-exporter dashboard.

{% hint style="warning" %}
:fire: **Troubleshooting common Grafana issues**

**Symptom**: Your dashboard is missing some data_._

**Solution**_:_ Ensure that the execution or consensus client has enabled the appropriate metrics flag.

* Geth: geth --http --metrics --pprof
* Besu: besu  --metrics-enabled=true
* Nethermind: Nethermind.Runner  --Metrics.Enabled true
* Erigon: erigon  --metrics
* Lighthouse beacon-node: lighthouse bn  --validator-monitor-auto
* Nimbus: nimbus\_beacon\_node  --metrics  --metrics-port=8008
* Teku: --metrics-enabled=true --metrics-port=8008
* Lodestar beacon-node: lodestar beacon --metrics true
{% endhint %}

#### Example of Grafana Dashboards for each consensus client.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Lighthouse" %}
![Beacon Chain dashboard by sigp](../../../../.gitbook/assets/lhm.png)

![Validator Client dashboard by sigp](../../../../.gitbook/assets/lighthouse-validator.png)

Beacon Chain JSON Download link: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/Summary.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/Summary.json)

Validator Client JSON download link: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/ValidatorClient.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/master/dashboards/ValidatorClient.json)

Credits: [https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse-metrics/)

![LH dashboard by Yoldark](../../../../.gitbook/assets/yoldark-lighthouse.png)

JSON Download link: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard/main/Yoldark\_ETH\_staking\_dashboard.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard/main/Yoldark\_ETH\_staking\_dashboard.json)

Credits: [https://github.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard](https://github.com/Yoldark34/lighthouse-staking-dashboard)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nimbus" %}
![Dashboard by status-im](../../../../.gitbook/assets/nim\_dashboard.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/)

![Nimbus dashboard by metanull-operator](../../../../.gitbook/assets/eth2-grafana-dashboard-prysm.jpg)

JSON download link:

Credits: [https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/](https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Teku" %}
![Teku by PegaSys Engineering](../../../../.gitbook/assets/teku.dash.png)

Credits: [https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13457](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13457)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Prysm" %}
![Prysm dashboard by GuillaumeMiralles](../../../../.gitbook/assets/prysm\_dash.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard](https://github.com/GuillaumeMiralles/prysm-grafana-dashboard)

![Prysm dashboard by metanull-operator](../../../../.gitbook/assets/eth2-grafana-dashboard-prysm.jpg)

JSON download link: [https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/raw/master/eth2-grafana-dashboard-single-source.json](https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/raw/master/eth2-grafana-dashboard-single-source.json)

Credits: [https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/](https://github.com/metanull-operator/eth2-grafana/)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Lodestar" %}
Work in progress.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Example of Grafana Dashboards for each execution client.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Geth" %}
![Dashboard by karalabe](../../../../.gitbook/assets/geth-dash.png)

Credits: [https://gist.github.com/karalabe/e7ca79abdec54755ceae09c08bd090cd](https://gist.github.com/karalabe/e7ca79abdec54755ceae09c08bd090cd)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Besu" %}
![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/besu-dash.png)

Credits: [https://grafana.com/dashboards/10273](https://grafana.com/dashboards/10273)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Nethermind" %}
![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/nethermind-dash.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure](https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Erigon" %}
![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/erigon-grafana.png)

Credits: [https://github.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/tree/devel/cmd/prometheus/dashboards](https://github.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/tree/devel/cmd/prometheus/dashboards)
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Example of Node-Exporter Dashboard

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Node-Exporter Dashboard by starsliao" %}
**General system monitoring**

Includes: CPU, memory, disk IO, network, temperature and other monitoring metrics。

![](<../../../../.gitbook/assets/grafana (1).png>)

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/node-exporter2.png)

Credits: [starsliao](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/11074)
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### :warning: 6.3 Setup Alert Notifications

{% hint style="info" %}
Setup alerts to get notified if your validators go offline.
{% endhint %}

Get notified of problems with your validators. Choose between email, telegram, discord or slack.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Email Notifications" %}
1. Visit [https://beaconcha.in/](https://beaconcha.in)
2. Sign up for an account.
3. Verify your **email**
4. Search for your **validator's public address**
5. Add validators to your watchlist by clicking the **bookmark symbol**.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Telegram Notifications" %}
1. On the menu of Grafana, select **Notification channels** under the bell icon.
2. Click on **Add channel**.
3. Give the notification channel a **name**.
4. Select **Telegram** from the Type list.
5. To complete the **Telegram API settings**, a **Telegram channel** and \*\*bot \*\*are required. For instructions on setting up a bot with `@Botfather`, see [this section](https://core.telegram.org/bots#6-botfather) of the Telegram documentation. You need to create a BOT API token.
6. Create a new telegram group.
7. Invite the bot to your new group.
8. Type at least 1 message into the group to initialize it.
9. Visit [`https://api.telegram.org/botXXX:YYY/getUpdates`](https://api.telegram.org/botXXX:YYY/getUpdates) where `XXX:YYY` is your BOT API Token.
10. In the JSON response, find and copy the **Chat ID**. Find it between \*\*chat \*\*and **title**. _Example of Chat ID_: `-1123123123`

    ```
    "chat":{"id":-123123123,"title":
    ```
11. Paste the **Chat ID** into the corresponding field in **Grafana**.
12. **Save and test** the notification channel for your alerts.
13. Now you can create custom alerts from your dashboards. [Visit here to learn how to create alerts.](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/create-alerts/)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Discord Notifications" %}
1. On the menu of Grafana, select **Notification channels** under the bell icon.
2. Click on **Add channel**.
3. Add a **name** to the notification channel.
4. Select **Discord** from the Type list.
5. To complete the set up, a Discord server (and a text channel available) as well as a Webhook URL are required. For instructions on setting up a Discord's Webhooks, see [this section](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) of their documentation.
6. Enter the Webhook **URL** in the Discord notification settings panel.
7. Click **Send Test**, which will push a confirmation message to the Discord channel.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Slack Notifications" %}
1. On the menu of Grafana, select **Notification channels** under the bell icon.
2. Click on **Add channel**.
3. Add a **name** to the notification channel.
4. Select **Slack** from the Type list.
5. For instructions on setting up a Slack's Incoming Webhooks, see [this section](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) of their documentation.
6. Enter the Slack Incoming Webhook URL in the **URL** field.
7. Click **Send Test**, which will push a confirmation message to the Slack channel.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
