coins/overview-eth/guide-or-how-to-setup-a-validator-on-eth2-mainnet/part-i-installation/signing-up-to-be-a-validator-at-the-launchpad.md, before:

# Signing up to be a validator at the Launchpad

1. Install dependencies, the Ethereum Foundation deposit tool and generate your two sets of key pairs.

{% hint style="info" %}
Each validator will have two sets of key pairs. A **signing key** and a **withdrawal key.** These keys are derived from a single mnemonic phrase. [Learn more about keys.](https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/05/21/keys/)



You will also set your [ETH Withdrawal Address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-What-are-the-two-types-of-withdrawals), preferably from your Ledger or Trezor hardware wallet.
{% endhint %}

You have the choice of using the [Wagyu GUI](https://github.com/stake-house/wagyu-installer), downloading the pre-built [Ethereum staking deposit tool](https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli) or building it from source.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Build from source code" %}
Install dependencies.

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-pip git -y
```



Download source code and install.

```
cd $HOME
git clone https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli
cd staking-deposit-cli
sudo ./deposit.sh install
```



Make a new mnemonic and replace `<ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>` with your [ethereum withdrawal address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-If-I-used---eth1\_withdrawal\_address-when-making-my-initial-deposit-which-type-of-withdrawal-credentials-do-I-have), ideally from a Trezor, Ledger or comparable hardware wallet. :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS.** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:

```
./deposit.sh new-mnemonic --chain mainnet --eth1_withdrawal_address <ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Pre-built staking-deposit-cli" %}
Download staking-deposit-cli

```bash
cd $HOME
wget https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli/releases/download/v2.4.0/staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz
```



Verify the SHA256 Checksum matches the checksum on the [releases page](https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli/releases/tag/v2.3.0).

```bash
echo "c2b12a9e515f904ca359ec39dfbd7022dfefe881c1796ce42319df0a2da05560 *staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz" | shasum -a 256 --check
```



Example valid output:

> staking\_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz: OK



{% hint style="danger" %}
Only proceed if the sha256 check passes with **OK**!
{% endhint %}



Extract the archive.

```
tar -xvf staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz
mv staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64 staking-deposit-cli
rm staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz
cd staking-deposit-cli
```



Make a new mnemonic and replace `<ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>` with your [ethereum withdrawal address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-If-I-used---eth1\_withdrawal\_address-when-making-my-initial-deposit-which-type-of-withdrawal-credentials-do-I-have), ideally from a Trezor, Ledger or comparable hardware wallet. :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS.** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:

```
./deposit new-mnemonic --chain mainnet --eth1_withdrawal_address <ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Wagyu" %}
Wagyu (formerly known as StakeHouse) is an application aimed at lowering the technical bar to staking on Ethereum 2.0.

Dubbed a 'one-click installer', it provides a clean UI automating the setup and management of all the infrastructure necessary to stake without the user needing to have any technical knowledge.



:octagonal\_sign:**DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS**:octagonal\_sign:



Download Wagyu: [https://wagyu.gg](https://wagyu.gg/)

Github: [https://github.com/stake-house/wagyu-installer](https://github.com/stake-house/wagyu-installer)



After creating the validator keys locally, you'll want to copy these validator keys via USB key or rsync file transfer to your staking node.



To align with this guide's steps, first make a default path to store your validator keys

<pre><code><strong>mkdir -p $HOME/staking-deposit-cli/validator_keys
</strong></code></pre>



If using USB key, mount the key then copy.

```
cp <directory-with-keys>/*.json $HOME/staking-deposit-cli/validator_keys
```



If using rsync, copy your validator keys from your local computer to your staking node with the following command. Change ssh port if needed.

```
rsync -a "ssh -p 22" <directory-with-keys>/*.json <username>@<remote_host>:/home/<username>/staking-deposit-cli/validator_keys
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Advanced - Airgapped" %}
{% hint style="warning" %}
:fire: **Pro Security Tip**: Run the staking\_deposit-cli tool and generate your **mnemonic seed** for your validator keys on an **air-gapped offline machine booted from usb**.
{% endhint %}



You will learn how to boot up a windows PC into an airgapped [Tails operating system](https://tails.boum.org/index.en.html).

The Tails OS is an _amnesic_ operating system, meaning it will save nothing and _leave no tracks behind_ each time you boot it.

**Part 0 - Prerequisites**

You need:

* 2 storage mediums (can be USB stick, SD cards or external hard drives)
* One of them must be > 8GB
* Windows or Mac computer
* 30 minutes or longer depending on your download speed

**Part 1 - Download Tails OS**

Download the official image from the [Tails website](https://tails.boum.org/install/index.en.html). Might take a while, go grab a coffee.

Make sure you follow the guide on the Tails website to verify your download of Tails.

**Part 2 - Download and install the software to transfer your Tails image on your USB stick**

For Windows, use one of

* [Etcher](https://tails.boum.org/etcher/Etcher-Portable.exe)
* [Win32 Disk Imager](https://win32diskimager.org/#download)
* [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/en\_US/)

For Mac, download [Etcher](https://tails.boum.org/etcher/Etcher.dmg)

**Part 3 - Making your bootable USB stick**

Run the above software. This is an example how it looks like on Mac OS with etcher, but other software should be similar.

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/etcher\_in\_mac.png)

Select the Tails OS image that you downloaded as the image. Then select the USB stick (the larger one).

Then flash the image to the larger USB stick.

**Part 4 - Download and verify the staking-deposit-cli**

You can refer to the other tab on this guide on how to download and verify the staking-deposit-cli.

Copy the file to the other USB stick.

**Part 5 - Reboot your computer and into Tails OS**

After you have done all the above, you can reboot. If you are connected by a LAN cable to the internet, you can disconnect it manually.

Plug in the USB stick that has your Tails OS.

On Mac, press and hold the Option key immediately upon hearing the startup chime. Release the key after Startup Manager appears.

On Windows, it depends on your computer manufacturer. Usually it is by pressing F1 or F12. If it doesn't work, try googling "Enter boot options menu on \[Insert your PC brand]"

Choose the USB stick that you loaded up with Tails OS to boot into Tails.

**Part 6 - Welcome to Tails OS**

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/grub.png)

You can boot with all the default settings.

**Part 7 - Run the staking-deposit-cli**

Plug in your other USB stick with the `staking-deposit-cli` file.

Copy the staking-depsit-cli filet to your home directory.

Add execute permissions





Make a new mnemonic and replace `<ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>` with your [ethereum withdrawal address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-If-I-used---eth1\_withdrawal\_address-when-making-my-initial-deposit-which-type-of-withdrawal-credentials-do-I-have), ideally from a Trezor, Ledger or comparable hardware wallet. :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS.** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:

```
./deposit new-mnemonic --chain mainnet --eth1_withdrawal_address <ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>
```



{% hint style="info" %}
The Withdrawal Address is where your ETH is returned upon "voluntary exiting a validator", or also known as full withdrawal. This address also receives partial withdrawls, which is where any excess balance above 32 ETH is periodically scraped and made available for use.
{% endhint %}



If you ran this command directly from your non-Tails USB stick, the validator keys should stay on it. If it hasn't, copy the directory over to your non-Tails USB stick.



{% hint style="warning" %}
:fire: **Make sure you have saved your validator keys directory in your other USB stick (non Tails OS) before you shutdown Tails. Tails will delete everything saved on it after you shutdown.**.
{% endhint %}



{% hint style="success" %}
:tada: Congrats on learning how to use Tails OS to make an air gapped system. As a bonus, you can reboot into Tails OS again and connect to internet to surf the dark web or clear net safely!
{% endhint %}



Alternatively, follow this [ethstaker.cc](https://ethstaker.cc) exclusive for the low down on making a bootable usb.

**Part 1 - Create a Ubuntu 20.04 USB Bootable Drive**

Video link: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DTR3PzRRtYU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DTR3PzRRtYU)

**Part 2 - Install Ubuntu 20.04 from the USB Drive**

Video link: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C97\_6MrufCE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C97\_6MrufCE)

You can copy via USB key the pre-built staking-deposit-cli binaries from an online machine to an air-gapped offline machine booted from usb. Make sure to disconnect the ethernet cable and/or WIFI.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

2\. If using **staking-deposit-cli**, follow the prompts and pick a **KEYSTORE password**. This password encrypts your keystore files. Write down your mnemonic and keep this safe and **offline**.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Caution**: Only deposit the 32 ETH per validator if you are confident your execution client  and consensus client will be fully synched and ready to perform validator duties. You can return later to launchpad with your deposit-data to finish the next steps.
{% endhint %}

3\. Follow the steps at [https://launchpad.ethereum.org/](https://launchpad.ethereum.org) while skipping over the steps you already just completed. Study the eth2 phase 0 overview material. Understanding eth staking is the key to success!

{% hint style="info" %}
:whale: **Batch Depositing Tip**: If you have many deposits to make for many validators, consider using [Abyss.finance's eth2depositor tool.](https://abyss.finance/eth2depositor) This greatly improves the deposit experience as multiple deposits can be batched into one transaction, thereby saving gas fees and saving your fingers by minimizing Metamask clicking.

Source: [https://twitter.com/AbyssFinance/status/1379732382044069888](https://twitter.com/AbyssFinance/status/1379732382044069888)
{% endhint %}

4\. Back on the launchpad website, upload your`deposit_data-#########.json` found in the `validator_keys` directory.

5\. Connect to the launchpad with your Metamask wallet, review and accept terms

6\. Confirm the transaction(s). There's one deposit transaction of 32 ETH for each validator.

{% hint style="info" %}
For instance, if you want to run 3 validators you will need to have (32 x 3) = 96 ETH plus some extra to cover the gas fees.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Your transaction is sending and depositing your ETH to the [official ETH2 deposit contract address.](https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/11/04/eth2-quick-update-no-19/)

**Check**, _double-check_, _**triple-check**_ that the official Eth2 deposit contract address is correct.[`0x00000000219ab540356cBB839Cbe05303d7705Fa`](https://etherscan.io/address/0x00000000219ab540356cbb839cbe05303d7705fa)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Critical Crypto Reminder:** Keep your mnemonic, keep your ETH.

* Write down your mnemonic seed **offline**. _Not email. Not cloud._
* Multiple copies are better. Best stored in a [_metal seed._](https://jlopp.github.io/metal-bitcoin-storage-reviews/)
* Make **offline backups**, such as to a USB key, of your **`validator_keys`** directory.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-958: Update warnings, clarify air-gapp deposit file

coins/overview-eth/guide-or-how-to-setup-a-validator-on-eth2-mainnet/part-i-installation/signing-up-to-be-a-validator-at-the-launchpad.md, after:

# Signing up to be a validator at the Launchpad

1. Install dependencies, the Ethereum Foundation deposit tool and generate your two sets of key pairs.

{% hint style="info" %}
Each validator will have two sets of key pairs. A **signing key** and a **withdrawal key.** These keys are derived from a single mnemonic phrase. [Learn more about keys.](https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/05/21/keys/)



You will also set your [ETH Withdrawal Address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-What-are-the-two-types-of-withdrawals), preferably from your Ledger or Trezor hardware wallet.
{% endhint %}

You have the choice of using the [Wagyu GUI](https://github.com/stake-house/wagyu-installer), downloading the pre-built [Ethereum staking deposit tool](https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli) or building it from source.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Build from source code" %}
Install dependencies.

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-pip git -y
```



Download source code and install.

```
cd $HOME
git clone https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli
cd staking-deposit-cli
sudo ./deposit.sh install
```



Make a new mnemonic and replace `<ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>` with your [ethereum withdrawal address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-If-I-used---eth1\_withdrawal\_address-when-making-my-initial-deposit-which-type-of-withdrawal-credentials-do-I-have), ideally from a Trezor, Ledger or comparable hardware wallet.&#x20;

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS.** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:&#x20;

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:  **Double check your work as this is permanent once set!** :octagonal\_sign: :octagonal\_sign:

```
./deposit.sh new-mnemonic --chain mainnet --eth1_withdrawal_address <ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Pre-built staking-deposit-cli" %}
Download staking-deposit-cli

```bash
cd $HOME
wget https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli/releases/download/v2.4.0/staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz
```



Verify the SHA256 Checksum matches the checksum on the [releases page](https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli/releases/tag/v2.3.0).

```bash
echo "c2b12a9e515f904ca359ec39dfbd7022dfefe881c1796ce42319df0a2da05560 *staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz" | shasum -a 256 --check
```



Example valid output:

> staking\_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz: OK



{% hint style="danger" %}
Only proceed if the sha256 check passes with **OK**!
{% endhint %}



Extract the archive.

```
tar -xvf staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz
mv staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64 staking-deposit-cli
rm staking_deposit-cli-ef89710-linux-amd64.tar.gz
cd staking-deposit-cli
```



Make a new mnemonic and replace `<ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>` with your [ethereum withdrawal address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-If-I-used---eth1\_withdrawal\_address-when-making-my-initial-deposit-which-type-of-withdrawal-credentials-do-I-have), ideally from a Trezor, Ledger or comparable hardware wallet.&#x20;

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS.** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:**Double check your work as this is permanent once set!** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:&#x20;

```
./deposit new-mnemonic --chain mainnet --eth1_withdrawal_address <ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Wagyu" %}
Wagyu (formerly known as StakeHouse) is an application aimed at lowering the technical bar to staking on Ethereum 2.0.

Dubbed a 'one-click installer', it provides a clean UI automating the setup and management of all the infrastructure necessary to stake without the user needing to have any technical knowledge.



:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:**DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS**:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **Double check your work as this is permanent once set!** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:



Download Wagyu: [https://wagyu.gg](https://wagyu.gg/)

Github: [https://github.com/stake-house/wagyu-installer](https://github.com/stake-house/wagyu-installer)



After creating the validator keys locally, you'll want to copy these validator keys via USB key or rsync file transfer to your staking node.



To align with this guide's steps, first make a default path to store your validator keys

<pre><code><strong>mkdir -p $HOME/staking-deposit-cli/validator_keys
</strong></code></pre>



If using USB key, mount the key then copy.

```
cp <directory-with-keys>/*.json $HOME/staking-deposit-cli/validator_keys
```



If using rsync, copy your validator keys from your local computer to your staking node with the following command. Change ssh port if needed.

```
rsync -a "ssh -p 22" <directory-with-keys>/*.json <username>@<remote_host>:/home/<username>/staking-deposit-cli/validator_keys
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Advanced - Airgapped" %}
{% hint style="warning" %}
:fire: **Pro Security Tip**: Run the staking\_deposit-cli tool and generate your **mnemonic seed** for your validator keys on an **air-gapped offline machine booted from usb**.
{% endhint %}



You will learn how to boot up a windows PC into an airgapped [Tails operating system](https://tails.boum.org/index.en.html).

The Tails OS is an _amnesic_ operating system, meaning it will save nothing and _leave no tracks behind_ each time you boot it.

**Part 0 - Prerequisites**

You need:

* 2 storage mediums (can be USB stick, SD cards or external hard drives)
* One of them must be > 8GB
* Windows or Mac computer
* 30 minutes or longer depending on your download speed

**Part 1 - Download Tails OS**

Download the official image from the [Tails website](https://tails.boum.org/install/index.en.html). Might take a while, go grab a coffee.

Make sure you follow the guide on the Tails website to verify your download of Tails.

**Part 2 - Download and install the software to transfer your Tails image on your USB stick**

For Windows, use one of

* [Etcher](https://tails.boum.org/etcher/Etcher-Portable.exe)
* [Win32 Disk Imager](https://win32diskimager.org/#download)
* [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/en\_US/)

For Mac, download [Etcher](https://tails.boum.org/etcher/Etcher.dmg)

**Part 3 - Making your bootable USB stick**

Run the above software. This is an example how it looks like on Mac OS with etcher, but other software should be similar.

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/etcher\_in\_mac.png)

Select the Tails OS image that you downloaded as the image. Then select the USB stick (the larger one).

Then flash the image to the larger USB stick.

**Part 4 - Download and verify the staking-deposit-cli**

You can refer to the other tab on this guide on how to download and verify the staking-deposit-cli.

Copy the file to the other USB stick.

**Part 5 - Reboot your computer and into Tails OS**

After you have done all the above, you can reboot. If you are connected by a LAN cable to the internet, you can disconnect it manually.

Plug in the USB stick that has your Tails OS.

On Mac, press and hold the Option key immediately upon hearing the startup chime. Release the key after Startup Manager appears.

On Windows, it depends on your computer manufacturer. Usually it is by pressing F1 or F12. If it doesn't work, try googling "Enter boot options menu on \[Insert your PC brand]"

Choose the USB stick that you loaded up with Tails OS to boot into Tails.

**Part 6 - Welcome to Tails OS**

![](../../../../.gitbook/assets/grub.png)

You can boot with all the default settings.

**Part 7 - Run the staking-deposit-cli**

Plug in your other USB stick with the `staking-deposit-cli` file.

Copy the `deposit` file to your home directory.

Add execute permissions

```
chmod +x deposit
```

Make a new mnemonic and replace `<ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>` with your [ethereum withdrawal address](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-If-I-used---eth1\_withdrawal\_address-when-making-my-initial-deposit-which-type-of-withdrawal-credentials-do-I-have), ideally from a Trezor, Ledger or comparable hardware wallet.&#x20;

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:**DO NOT USE AN EXCHANGE ADDRESS AS WITHDRAWAL ADDRESS.** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:&#x20;

:octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign: **Double check your work as this is permanent once set!** :octagonal\_sign::octagonal\_sign:

```
./deposit new-mnemonic --chain mainnet --eth1_withdrawal_address <ETH_ADDRESS_FROM_IDEALLY_HARDWARE_WALLET>
```



{% hint style="info" %}
The Withdrawal Address is where your ETH is returned upon "voluntary exiting a validator", or also known as full withdrawal. This address also receives partial withdrawls, which is where any excess balance above 32 ETH is periodically scraped and made available for use.
{% endhint %}



If you ran this command directly from your non-Tails USB stick, the validator keys should stay on it. If it hasn't, copy the directory over to your non-Tails USB stick.



{% hint style="warning" %}
:fire: **Make sure you have saved your validator keys directory in your other USB stick (non Tails OS) before you shutdown Tails. Tails will delete everything saved on it after you shutdown.**.
{% endhint %}



{% hint style="success" %}
:tada: Congrats on learning how to use Tails OS to make an air gapped system. As a bonus, you can reboot into Tails OS again and connect to internet to surf the dark web or clear net safely!
{% endhint %}



Alternatively, follow this [ethstaker.cc](https://ethstaker.cc) exclusive for the low down on making a bootable usb.

**Part 1 - Create a Ubuntu 20.04 USB Bootable Drive**

Video link: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DTR3PzRRtYU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DTR3PzRRtYU)

**Part 2 - Install Ubuntu 20.04 from the USB Drive**

Video link: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C97\_6MrufCE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C97\_6MrufCE)

You can copy via USB key the pre-built staking-deposit-cli binaries from an online machine to an air-gapped offline machine booted from usb. Make sure to disconnect the ethernet cable and/or WIFI.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

2\. If using **staking-deposit-cli**, follow the prompts and pick a **KEYSTORE password**. This password encrypts your keystore files. Write down your mnemonic and keep this safe and **offline**.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Caution**: Only deposit the 32 ETH per validator if you are confident your execution client  and consensus client will be fully synched and ready to perform validator duties. You can return later to launchpad with your deposit-data to finish the next steps.
{% endhint %}

3\. Follow the steps at [https://launchpad.ethereum.org/](https://launchpad.ethereum.org) while skipping over the steps you already just completed. Study the eth2 phase 0 overview material. Understanding eth staking is the key to success!

{% hint style="info" %}
:whale: **Batch Depositing Tip**: If you have many deposits to make for many validators, consider using [Abyss.finance's eth2depositor tool.](https://abyss.finance/eth2depositor) This greatly improves the deposit experience as multiple deposits can be batched into one transaction, thereby saving gas fees and saving your fingers by minimizing Metamask clicking.

Source: [https://twitter.com/AbyssFinance/status/1379732382044069888](https://twitter.com/AbyssFinance/status/1379732382044069888)
{% endhint %}

4\. Back on the launchpad website, upload your`deposit_data-#########.json` found in the `validator_keys` directory.

5\. Connect to the launchpad with your Metamask wallet, review and accept terms

6\. Confirm the transaction(s). There's one deposit transaction of 32 ETH for each validator.

{% hint style="info" %}
For instance, if you want to run 3 validators you will need to have (32 x 3) = 96 ETH plus some extra to cover the gas fees.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Your transaction is sending and depositing your ETH to the [official ETH2 deposit contract address.](https://blog.ethereum.org/2020/11/04/eth2-quick-update-no-19/)

**Check**, _double-check_, _**triple-check**_ that the official Eth2 deposit contract address is correct.[`0x00000000219ab540356cBB839Cbe05303d7705Fa`](https://etherscan.io/address/0x00000000219ab540356cbb839cbe05303d7705fa)
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Critical Crypto Reminder:** Keep your mnemonic, keep your ETH.

* Write down your mnemonic seed **offline**. _Not email. Not cloud._
* Multiple copies are better. Best stored in a [_metal seed._](https://jlopp.github.io/metal-bitcoin-storage-reviews/)
* Make **offline backups**, such as to a USB key, of your **`validator_keys`** directory.
{% endhint %}
