coins/overview-eth/guide-or-how-to-setup-a-validator-on-eth2-testnet-prater/step-2-configuring-node.md, before:

# Step 2: Configuring Node

## :hammer\_pick: Node Configuration

### Updating the node

Ensure all the latest packages and patches are installed first, then reboot.

```
sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt dist-upgrade -y
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo reboot
```

## :key: Security Configuration

### Create a non-root user with sudo privileges

<details>

<summary>Creating a user called ethereum</summary>

**Using Ubuntu Server**: Begin by connecting with your SSH client.

```bash
ssh username@staking.node.ip.address
```

**Using Ubuntu Desktop**: You're likely infront of your **local** node. Simply open a terminal window from anywhere by typing Ctrl+Alt+T.

Create a new user called `ethereum`

```bash
sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash ethereum
```

Set the password for ethereum user

```bash
sudo passwd ethereum
```

Add ethereum to the sudo group

```bash
sudo usermod -aG sudo ethereum
```

</details>

### Hardening SSH Access

{% hint style="info" %}
**Local node**? You can skip this section on Hardening SSH Access.
{% endhint %}

<details>

<summary>Creating a new SSH Key</summary>

Create a new SSH key pair on **your client machine (i.e. local laptop)**. Run this on **your client machine,** not remote node.  Update the comment with your email or a comment.

```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "name@email.com"
```

You'll see this next:

```
Generating public/private ed25519 key pair.
Enter file in which to save the key (/home/<myUserName>/.ssh/id_ed25519):
```

Here you're asked to type a file name in which to save the SSH private key. If you press enter, you can use the default file name `id_ed25519`

Next, you're prompted to enter a passphrase.

```
Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
```

:information\_source: A **passphrase** adds an extra layer of protection to your SSH private key. Everytime you connect via SSH to your remote node, enter this passphrase to unlock your SSH private key.&#x20;

:fire: Passphrase is highly recommended! Do not leave this empty for no passphrase.

:bulb:Do not forget or lose your passphrase. Save this to a password manager.

**Location**: Your SSH key pair is stored in your home directory under `~/.ssh`

**File name:** If your default keyname is`id_ed25519`, then&#x20;

* your **private SSH key** is `id_ed25519`
* your **public SSH key** is `id_ed25519.pub`

:fire: **IMPORTANT:** Make multiple backup copies of your **private SSH key file** to external storage, such as a USB backup key, for recovery purposes. Also backup your **passphrase**!

Verify the contents of your private SSH key file before moving on.&#x20;

```
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

It should look similar to this example.

```
-----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
b3BlbnNzaC1rZXktdjEAAAAABG5vbmUAAAAEbm9uZQAAAAAAAAABAAAAMwAAAAtzc2gtZW
QyNTUxOQAAACBAblzWLb7/0o62FZf9YjLPCV4qFhbqiSH3TBvZXBiYNgAAAJCWunkulrp5
LgAAAAtzc2gtZWQyNTUxOQAAACBAblzWLb7/0o62FZf9YjLPCV4qFhbqiSH3TBvZXBiYNg
AAAEAxT+yCmifGWgbFnkauf0HyOAJANhYY5EElEX8fI+M4B0BuXNYtvv/SjrYVl/1iMs8J
XioWFuqJIfdMG9lcGJg2AAAACWV0aDJAZXRoMgECAwQ=
-----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
```

</details>

#### Transferring the SSH Public Key to Remote node

<details>

<summary>Option 1: Transferring with ssh-copy-id</summary>

Works with Linux or MacOS. Use option 2 for Windows.

```bash
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 myUserName@staking.node.ip.address
```

</details>

<details>

<summary>Option 2: Copying the key manually</summary>

First, begin by obtaining your SSH Public key.

For Linux/Mac,

```
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

For Windows,

Open a command prompt (Windows Key + R, then `cmd`, finally press enter).

```
type %USERPROFILE%\.ssh\id_ed25519.pub
```

The output will look similar to the following:

```
ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIAoc78lv+XDh2znunKXUF/9zBNJrM4Nh67yut9RN14SX name@email.com
```

Copy into your clipboard this output, also known as your public SSH key.

&#x20;On your **remote node**, run the following:

```
mkdir -p ~/.ssh
nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

First, a directory called **.ssh** is created, then `Nano` is a text editor for editing a special file called **authorized\_keys**

With nano opening the authorized\_keys file, right-click your mouse to paste your public SSH key into this file.

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then`Enter`.

Verify your public SSH key was properly pasted into the file.

```
cat ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

</details>

#### Disabling Password Authentication

<details>

<summary>Disabling root login and password based login</summary>

:information\_source: With SSH key authentication enabled, there's still the possibility to connect to your remote node with login and password, a much less secure and brute force-able attack vector.

Login via ssh with your new ethereum user

```
ssh ethereum@staking.node.ip.address
```

Edit the ssh configuration file

```
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Locate **PubkeyAuthentication** and update to yes. Delete the # in front.

```
PubkeyAuthentication yes
```

Locate **PasswordAuthentication** and update to no. Delete the # in front.

```
PasswordAuthentication no
```

Locate **PermitRootLogin** and update to prohibit-password. Delete the # in front.

```
PermitRootLogin prohibit-password
```

Locate **PermitEmptyPasswords** and update to no. Delete the # in front.

```
PermitEmptyPassword no
```

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then`Enter`.

Validate the syntax of your new SSH configuration.

```
sudo sshd -t
```

If no errors with the syntax validation, restart the SSH process.

```
sudo systemctl restart sshd
```

Verify the login still works.

```
ssh ethereum@staking.node.ip.address
```

**Optional**: Make logging in easier by updating your local ssh config.

To simplify the ssh command needed to log in to your server, consider updating your local `$HOME/myUserName/.ssh/config` file:

```bash
Host ethereum-server
  User ethereum
  HostName <staking.node.ip.address>
  Port 22
```

This will allow you to log in with `ssh ethereum-server` rather than needing to pass through all ssh parameters explicitly.

</details>

### Synchronizing time with Chrony

chrony is an implementation of the Network Time Protocol and helps to keep your computer's time synchronized with NTP.

{% hint style="info" %}
Because the consensus client relies on accurate times to perform attestations and produce blocks, your node's time must be accurate to real NTP time within 0.5 seconds.
{% endhint %}

To install chrony:

```
sudo apt-get install chrony -y
```

To see the source of synchronization data.

```
chronyc sources
```

To view the current status of chrony.

```
chronyc tracking
```

### Setting Timezone

To pick your timezone run the following command:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata
```

Find your region using the simple text-based GUI.

In the event that you are using national system like India's `IST` select:

```
Asia/Kolkata
```

This will be appropriate for all locales in the country (`IST`, `GMT+0530`).

### Creating the jwtsecret file

A jwtsecret file contains a hexadecimal string that is passed to both Execution Layer client and Consensus Layer clients, and is used to ensure authenticated communications between both clients.

```bash
#store the jwtsecret file at /secrets
sudo mkdir -p /secrets

#create the jwtsecret file
openssl rand -hex 32 | tr -d "\n" | sudo tee /secrets/jwtsecret

#enable read access
sudo chmod 644 /secrets/jwtsecret
```

## :link: Network Configuration

The standard UFW - Uncomplicated firewall can be used to control network access to your node and protect against unwelcome intruders.

### Configure UFW Defaults

By default, deny all incoming and outgoing traffic.

```bash
sudo ufw default deny incoming
sudo ufw default allow outgoing
```

### Allow SSH Port 22

If your node is remote in the cloud, you will need to enable SSH port 22 in order to connect.

```bash
# Allow ssh access
sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
```

### Allow Execution Client Port 30303

Peering on port 30303, execution clients use this port for communication with other network peers.

```bash
sudo ufw allow 30303
```

### Allow Consensus Client port

Consensus clients generally use port 9000 for communication with other network peers. Using tcp port 13000 and udp port 12000, Prysm uses a slightly different configuration.

```bash
# Lighthouse, Lodestar, Nimbus, Teku
sudo ufw allow 9000

# Prysm
sudo ufw allow 13000/tcp
sudo ufw allow 12000/udp
```

### Enable firewall

Finally, enable the firewall and review the configuration.

```bash
sudo ufw enable
sudo ufw status numbered 
```

Example of properly configured ufw status for Lighthouse.

> ```csharp
>      To                         Action      From
>      --                         ------      ----
> [ 1] 22/tcp                     ALLOW IN    Anywhere
> [ 2] 9000                       ALLOW IN    Anywhere
> [ 3] 30303                      ALLOW IN    Anywhere
> [ 4] 22/tcp (v6)                ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
> [ 5] 9000 (v6)                  ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
> [ 6] 30303 (v6)                 ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
> ```

{% hint style="info" %}
**Port Forwarding Tip:** You'll need to forward and open ports to your validator.



Verify port forwarding is working with

* [https://www.yougetsignal.com/tools/open-ports/](https://www.yougetsignal.com/tools/open-ports/)
* or [https://canyouseeme.org](https://canyouseeme.org)

As an example, for Lighthouse, you would verify ports 9000 and 30303 are reachable.



For optimal connectivity, ensure Port Forwarding is setup for your router. Learn to port forward with guides found at [https://portforward.com/how-to-port-forward](https://portforward.com/how-to-port-forward/)
{% endhint %}

#### Optional: Whitelisting Connections

Whitelisting, which means permitting connections from a specific IP, can be setup via the following command.

```bash
sudo ufw allow from <your client machine>
# Example
# sudo ufw allow from 192.168.50.22
```

### :chains: **Install Fail2ban**

{% hint style="info" %}
**Local node**? You can skip this section on installing Fail2ban.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Fail2ban is an intrusion-prevention system that monitors log files and searches for particular patterns that correspond to a failed login attempt. If a certain number of failed logins are detected from a specific IP address (within a specified amount of time), fail2ban blocks access from that IP address.
{% endhint %}

To install fail2ban:

```
sudo apt-get install fail2ban -y
```

Edit a config file that monitors SSH logins.

```
sudo nano /etc/fail2ban/jail.local
```

Add the following lines to the bottom of the file.

{% hint style="info" %}
:fire: **Whitelisting IP address tip**: The `ignoreip` parameter accepts IP addresses, IP ranges or DNS hosts that you can specify to be allowed to connect. This is where you want to specify your local client machine, local IP range or local domain, separated by spaces.

```bash
# Example
ignoreip = 192.168.1.0/24 127.0.0.1/8
```
{% endhint %}

```bash
[sshd]
enabled = true
port = 22
filter = sshd
logpath = /var/log/auth.log
maxretry = 3
# whitelisted IP addresses
ignoreip = <list of whitelisted IP address, your client machine>
```

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then`Enter`.

Restart fail2ban for settings to take effect.

```
sudo systemctl restart fail2ban
```

Commit message:

GITBOOK-984: Clarify ethereum user account usage

coins/overview-eth/guide-or-how-to-setup-a-validator-on-eth2-testnet-prater/step-2-configuring-node.md, after:

# Step 2: Configuring Node

## :hammer\_pick: Node Configuration

### Logging to the node

**Using Ubuntu Server**: Begin by connecting with your SSH client.

```bash
ssh username@staking.node.ip.address
```

**Using Ubuntu Desktop**: You're likely in-front of your **local** node. Simply open a terminal window from anywhere by typing Ctrl+Alt+T.

### Updating the node

Ensure all the latest packages and patches are installed first, then reboot.

```
sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt dist-upgrade -y
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo reboot
```

## :key: Security Configuration

### Create a non-root user with sudo privileges

<details>

<summary>Creating a user called ethereum</summary>

Create a new user called `ethereum`

```bash
sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash ethereum
```

Set the password for ethereum user

```bash
sudo passwd ethereum
```

Add ethereum to the sudo group

```bash
sudo usermod -aG sudo ethereum
```

Log out and log back in as this new user.

**Using Ubuntu Server**: Use the following commands.

```bash
exit
ssh ethereum@staking.node.ip.address
```

**Using Ubuntu Desktop**: Log out can be found in the top right corner under the Power Icon. Click the `ethereum` user account and enter password.



#### :bulb: For the rest of this guide, remain logged in as this `ethereum` user.

</details>

### Hardening SSH Access

{% hint style="info" %}
**Local node**? You can skip this section on Hardening SSH Access.
{% endhint %}

<details>

<summary>Creating a new SSH Key</summary>

Create a new SSH key pair on **your client machine (i.e. local laptop)**. Run this on **your client machine,** not remote node.  Update the comment with your email or a comment.

```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "name@email.com"
```

You'll see this next:

```
Generating public/private ed25519 key pair.
Enter file in which to save the key (/home/<myUserName>/.ssh/id_ed25519):
```

Here you're asked to type a file name in which to save the SSH private key. If you press enter, you can use the default file name `id_ed25519`

Next, you're prompted to enter a passphrase.

```
Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
```

:information\_source: A **passphrase** adds an extra layer of protection to your SSH private key. Everytime you connect via SSH to your remote node, enter this passphrase to unlock your SSH private key.&#x20;

:fire: Passphrase is highly recommended! Do not leave this empty for no passphrase.

:bulb:Do not forget or lose your passphrase. Save this to a password manager.

**Location**: Your SSH key pair is stored in your home directory under `~/.ssh`

**File name:** If your default keyname is`id_ed25519`, then&#x20;

* your **private SSH key** is `id_ed25519`
* your **public SSH key** is `id_ed25519.pub`

:fire: **IMPORTANT:** Make multiple backup copies of your **private SSH key file** to external storage, such as a USB backup key, for recovery purposes. Also backup your **passphrase**!

Verify the contents of your private SSH key file before moving on.&#x20;

```
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

It should look similar to this example.

```
-----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
b3BlbnNzaC1rZXktdjEAAAAABG5vbmUAAAAEbm9uZQAAAAAAAAABAAAAMwAAAAtzc2gtZW
QyNTUxOQAAACBAblzWLb7/0o62FZf9YjLPCV4qFhbqiSH3TBvZXBiYNgAAAJCWunkulrp5
LgAAAAtzc2gtZWQyNTUxOQAAACBAblzWLb7/0o62FZf9YjLPCV4qFhbqiSH3TBvZXBiYNg
AAAEAxT+yCmifGWgbFnkauf0HyOAJANhYY5EElEX8fI+M4B0BuXNYtvv/SjrYVl/1iMs8J
XioWFuqJIfdMG9lcGJg2AAAACWV0aDJAZXRoMgECAwQ=
-----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
```

</details>

#### Transferring the SSH Public Key to Remote node

<details>

<summary>Option 1: Transferring with ssh-copy-id</summary>

Works with Linux or MacOS. Use option 2 for Windows.

```bash
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 myUserName@staking.node.ip.address
```

</details>

<details>

<summary>Option 2: Copying the key manually</summary>

First, begin by obtaining your SSH Public key.

For Linux/Mac,

```
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

For Windows,

Open a command prompt (Windows Key + R, then `cmd`, finally press enter).

```
type %USERPROFILE%\.ssh\id_ed25519.pub
```

The output will look similar to the following:

```
ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIAoc78lv+XDh2znunKXUF/9zBNJrM4Nh67yut9RN14SX name@email.com
```

Copy into your clipboard this output, also known as your public SSH key.

&#x20;On your **remote node**, run the following:

```
mkdir -p ~/.ssh
nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

First, a directory called **.ssh** is created, then `Nano` is a text editor for editing a special file called **authorized\_keys**

With nano opening the authorized\_keys file, right-click your mouse to paste your public SSH key into this file.

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then`Enter`.

Verify your public SSH key was properly pasted into the file.

```
cat ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

</details>

#### Disabling Password Authentication

<details>

<summary>Disabling root login and password based login</summary>

:information\_source: With SSH key authentication enabled, there's still the possibility to connect to your remote node with login and password, a much less secure and brute force-able attack vector.

Login via ssh with your new ethereum user

```
ssh ethereum@staking.node.ip.address
```

Edit the ssh configuration file

```
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Locate **PubkeyAuthentication** and update to yes. Delete the # in front.

```
PubkeyAuthentication yes
```

Locate **PasswordAuthentication** and update to no. Delete the # in front.

```
PasswordAuthentication no
```

Locate **PermitRootLogin** and update to prohibit-password. Delete the # in front.

```
PermitRootLogin prohibit-password
```

Locate **PermitEmptyPasswords** and update to no. Delete the # in front.

```
PermitEmptyPassword no
```

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then`Enter`.

Validate the syntax of your new SSH configuration.

```
sudo sshd -t
```

If no errors with the syntax validation, restart the SSH process.

```
sudo systemctl restart sshd
```

Verify the login still works.

```
ssh ethereum@staking.node.ip.address
```

**Optional**: Make logging in easier by updating your local ssh config.

To simplify the ssh command needed to log in to your server, consider updating your local `$HOME/myUserName/.ssh/config` file:

```bash
Host ethereum-server
  User ethereum
  HostName <staking.node.ip.address>
  Port 22
```

This will allow you to log in with `ssh ethereum-server` rather than needing to pass through all ssh parameters explicitly.

</details>

### Synchronizing time with Chrony

chrony is an implementation of the Network Time Protocol and helps to keep your computer's time synchronized with NTP.

{% hint style="info" %}
Because the consensus client relies on accurate times to perform attestations and produce blocks, your node's time must be accurate to real NTP time within 0.5 seconds.
{% endhint %}

To install chrony:

```
sudo apt-get install chrony -y
```

To see the source of synchronization data.

```
chronyc sources
```

To view the current status of chrony.

```
chronyc tracking
```

### Setting Timezone

To pick your timezone run the following command:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata
```

Find your region using the simple text-based GUI.

In the event that you are using national system like India's `IST` select:

```
Asia/Kolkata
```

This will be appropriate for all locales in the country (`IST`, `GMT+0530`).

### Creating the jwtsecret file

A jwtsecret file contains a hexadecimal string that is passed to both Execution Layer client and Consensus Layer clients, and is used to ensure authenticated communications between both clients.

```bash
#store the jwtsecret file at /secrets
sudo mkdir -p /secrets

#create the jwtsecret file
openssl rand -hex 32 | tr -d "\n" | sudo tee /secrets/jwtsecret

#enable read access
sudo chmod 644 /secrets/jwtsecret
```

## :link: Network Configuration

The standard UFW - Uncomplicated firewall can be used to control network access to your node and protect against unwelcome intruders.

### Configure UFW Defaults

By default, deny all incoming and outgoing traffic.

```bash
sudo ufw default deny incoming
sudo ufw default allow outgoing
```

### Allow SSH Port 22

If your node is remote in the cloud, you will need to enable SSH port 22 in order to connect.

```bash
# Allow ssh access
sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
```

### Allow Execution Client Port 30303

Peering on port 30303, execution clients use this port for communication with other network peers.

```bash
sudo ufw allow 30303
```

### Allow Consensus Client port

Consensus clients generally use port 9000 for communication with other network peers. Using tcp port 13000 and udp port 12000, Prysm uses a slightly different configuration.

```bash
# Lighthouse, Lodestar, Nimbus, Teku
sudo ufw allow 9000

# Prysm
sudo ufw allow 13000/tcp
sudo ufw allow 12000/udp
```

### Enable firewall

Finally, enable the firewall and review the configuration.

```bash
sudo ufw enable
sudo ufw status numbered 
```

Example of properly configured ufw status for Lighthouse.

> ```csharp
>      To                         Action      From
>      --                         ------      ----
> [ 1] 22/tcp                     ALLOW IN    Anywhere
> [ 2] 9000                       ALLOW IN    Anywhere
> [ 3] 30303                      ALLOW IN    Anywhere
> [ 4] 22/tcp (v6)                ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
> [ 5] 9000 (v6)                  ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
> [ 6] 30303 (v6)                 ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
> ```

{% hint style="info" %}
**Port Forwarding Tip:** You'll need to forward and open ports to your validator.



Verify port forwarding is working with

* [https://www.yougetsignal.com/tools/open-ports/](https://www.yougetsignal.com/tools/open-ports/)
* or [https://canyouseeme.org](https://canyouseeme.org)

As an example, for Lighthouse, you would verify ports 9000 and 30303 are reachable.



For optimal connectivity, ensure Port Forwarding is setup for your router. Learn to port forward with guides found at [https://portforward.com/how-to-port-forward](https://portforward.com/how-to-port-forward/)
{% endhint %}

#### Optional: Whitelisting Connections

Whitelisting, which means permitting connections from a specific IP, can be setup via the following command.

```bash
sudo ufw allow from <your client machine>
# Example
# sudo ufw allow from 192.168.50.22
```

### :chains: **Install Fail2ban**

{% hint style="info" %}
**Local node**? You can skip this section on installing Fail2ban.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Fail2ban is an intrusion-prevention system that monitors log files and searches for particular patterns that correspond to a failed login attempt. If a certain number of failed logins are detected from a specific IP address (within a specified amount of time), fail2ban blocks access from that IP address.
{% endhint %}

To install fail2ban:

```
sudo apt-get install fail2ban -y
```

Edit a config file that monitors SSH logins.

```
sudo nano /etc/fail2ban/jail.local
```

Add the following lines to the bottom of the file.

{% hint style="info" %}
:fire: **Whitelisting IP address tip**: The `ignoreip` parameter accepts IP addresses, IP ranges or DNS hosts that you can specify to be allowed to connect. This is where you want to specify your local client machine, local IP range or local domain, separated by spaces.

```bash
# Example
ignoreip = 192.168.1.0/24 127.0.0.1/8
```
{% endhint %}

```bash
[sshd]
enabled = true
port = 22
filter = sshd
logpath = /var/log/auth.log
maxretry = 3
# whitelisted IP addresses
ignoreip = <list of whitelisted IP address, your client machine>
```

To exit and save, press `Ctrl` + `X`, then `Y`, then`Enter`.

Restart fail2ban for settings to take effect.

```
sudo systemctl restart fail2ban
```
