coins/overview-eth/mev-boost/mev-relay-list.md, before:

# MEV Relay List

## Definitions

* **Non-Censoring:** Will not filter or censor transactions according to OFAC sanction lists. Also commonly referred to as neutral, unregulated or censorship-free. All types of MEV permitted.

{% hint style="info" %}
Be sure to select the right network. Relays are available for **Mainnet, Holesky, Goerli and Sepolia Testnets**.
{% endhint %}

## Ethereum Mainnet Relays

| Relay Name                                                                                                |     Non-Censoring    | URL                                                                                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Aestus](https://aestus.live)                                                                             | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xa15b52576bcbf1072f4a011c0f99f9fb6c66f3e1ff321f11f461d15e31b1cb359caa092c71bbded0bae5b5ea401aab7e@aestus.live                      |
| [Agnostic Gnosis](https://agnostic-relay.net)                                                             | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xa7ab7a996c8584251c8f925da3170bdfd6ebc75d50f5ddc4050a6fdc77f2a3b5fce2cc750d0865e05d7228af97d69561@agnostic-relay.net               |
| [bloXroute Max Profit](https://docs.bloxroute.com/the-merge-eth2.0/mev-relay-instructions-for-validators) |          :x:         | https://0x8b5d2e73e2a3a55c6c87b8b6eb92e0149a125c852751db1422fa951e42a09b82c142c3ea98d0d9930b056a3bc9896b8f@bloxroute.max-profit.blxrbdn.com |
| [bloXroute Regulated](https://docs.bloxroute.com/the-merge-eth2.0/mev-relay-instructions-for-validators)  |          :x:         | https://0xb0b07cd0abef743db4260b0ed50619cf6ad4d82064cb4fbec9d3ec530f7c5e6793d9f286c4e082c0244ffb9f2658fe88@bloxroute.regulated.blxrbdn.com  |
| [Flashbots](https://boost.flashbots.net)                                                                  |          :x:         | https://0xac6e77dfe25ecd6110b8e780608cce0dab71fdd5ebea22a16c0205200f2f8e2e3ad3b71d3499c54ad14d6c21b41a37ae@boost-relay.flashbots.net        |
| [Manifold](https://mainnet-relay.securerpc.com)                                                           | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x98650451ba02064f7b000f5768cf0cf4d4e492317d82871bdc87ef841a0743f69f0f1eea11168503240ac35d101c9135@mainnet-relay.securerpc.com      |
| [Ultra Sound](https://relay.ultrasound.money)                                                             | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xa1559ace749633b997cb3fdacffb890aeebdb0f5a3b6aaa7eeeaf1a38af0a8fe88b9e4b1f61f236d2e64d95733327a62@relay.ultrasound.money           |
| [Wenmerge](https://relay.wenmerge.com)                                                                    | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x8c7d33605ecef85403f8b7289c8058f440cbb6bf72b055dfe2f3e2c6695b6a1ea5a9cd0eb3a7982927a463feb4c3dae2@relay.wenmerge.com               |
| [TitanRelay](https://titanrelay.xyz)                                                                      | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x8c4ed5e24fe5c6ae21018437bde147693f68cda427cd1122cf20819c30eda7ed74f72dece09bb313f2a1855595ab677d@titanrelay.xyz                   |

## Holesky Testnet Relays

| Relay Name                                    |     Non-Censoring    | URL                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------- | :------------------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [bloXroute](https://bloxroute.com)            | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x821f2a65afb70e7f2e820a925a9b4c80a159620582c1766b1b09729fec178b11ea22abb3a51f07b288be815a1a2ff516@bloxroute.holesky.blxrbdn.com     |
| [Flashbots](https://www.flashbots.net)        |          :x:         | https://0xafa4c6985aa049fb79dd37010438cfebeb0f2bd42b115b89dd678dab0670c1de38da0c4e9138c9290a398ecd9a0b3110@boost-relay-holesky.flashbots.net |
| [Titan Relay](http://titanrelay.xyz/)         |           ?          | https://0xaa58208899c6105603b74396734a6263cc7d947f444f396a90f7b7d3e65d102aec7e5e5291b27e08d02c50a050825c2f@holesky.titanrelay.xyz            |
| [Aestus](https://aestus.live)                 | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xab78bf8c781c58078c3beb5710c57940874dd96aef2835e7742c866b4c7c0406754376c2c8285a36c630346aa5c5f833@holesky.aestus.live               |
| [Ultra Sound](https://relay.ultrasound.money) | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xb1559beef7b5ba3127485bbbb090362d9f497ba64e177ee2c8e7db74746306efad687f2cf8574e38d70067d40ef136dc@relay-stag.ultrasound.money       |
| [TitanRelay](https://titanrelay.xyz)          | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xaa58208899c6105603b74396734a6263cc7d947f444f396a90f7b7d3e65d102aec7e5e5291b27e08d02c50a050825c2f@holesky.titanrelay.xyz            |

## Sepolia Testnet Relays

| Relay Name | Non-Censoring | URL                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------- | :-----------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Flashbots  |      :x:      | https://0xafa4c6985aa049fb79dd37010438cfebeb0f2bd42b115b89dd678dab0670c1de38da0c4e9138c9290a398ecd9a0b3110@boost-relay-sepolia.flashbots.net |

## :ladder: Next Steps

Monitor the reliability / uptime / performance of your relays

* **Relay Overview:** [https://beaconcha.in/relays](https://beaconcha.in/relays)
* **mevboost.org - Tracking relays and block builders**: [https://www.mevboost.org](https://www.mevboost.org/)
* **MEV Watch:** [https://www.mevwatch.info](https://www.mevwatch.info/)
* **MEV-Boost Dashboard:** [https://mevboost.pics](https://mevboost.pics/)
* **Tornado Warning:** [https://tornado-warning.info](https://tornado-warning.info/)
* **Rated Network Explorer:** [https://www.rated.network/relays?network=mainnet](https://www.rated.network/relays?network=mainnet)
* **Metrica Relay Monitor:** [https://app.metrika.co/ethereum/dashboard/relay-monitor](https://app.metrika.co/ethereum/dashboard/relay-monitor)
* **RelayScan.io MEV-Boost Analytics:** [https://www.relayscan.io](https://www.relayscan.io/)
* **MEV Panda:** [https://www.mevpanda.com](https://www.mevpanda.com)
* **Inclusion Watch:** [https://www.inclusion.watch](https://www.inclusion.watch)
* **Ethereum Block Value Analytics:** [https://payload.de/data](https://payload.de/data/)

{% hint style="info" %}
Learn to setup [MEV-boost with our guide.](./)
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-1295: Add Hoodi Mev relays

coins/overview-eth/mev-boost/mev-relay-list.md, after:

# MEV Relay List

## Definitions

* **Non-Censoring:** Will not filter or censor transactions according to OFAC sanction lists. Also commonly referred to as neutral, unregulated or censorship-free. All types of MEV permitted.

{% hint style="info" %}
Be sure to select the right network. Relays are available for **Mainnet, Hoodi, Holesky, Goerli and Sepolia Testnets**.
{% endhint %}

## Ethereum Mainnet Relays

| Relay Name                                                                                                |     Non-Censoring    | URL                                                                                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Aestus](https://aestus.live)                                                                             | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xa15b52576bcbf1072f4a011c0f99f9fb6c66f3e1ff321f11f461d15e31b1cb359caa092c71bbded0bae5b5ea401aab7e@aestus.live                      |
| [Agnostic Gnosis](https://agnostic-relay.net)                                                             | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xa7ab7a996c8584251c8f925da3170bdfd6ebc75d50f5ddc4050a6fdc77f2a3b5fce2cc750d0865e05d7228af97d69561@agnostic-relay.net               |
| [bloXroute Max Profit](https://docs.bloxroute.com/the-merge-eth2.0/mev-relay-instructions-for-validators) |          :x:         | https://0x8b5d2e73e2a3a55c6c87b8b6eb92e0149a125c852751db1422fa951e42a09b82c142c3ea98d0d9930b056a3bc9896b8f@bloxroute.max-profit.blxrbdn.com |
| [bloXroute Regulated](https://docs.bloxroute.com/the-merge-eth2.0/mev-relay-instructions-for-validators)  |          :x:         | https://0xb0b07cd0abef743db4260b0ed50619cf6ad4d82064cb4fbec9d3ec530f7c5e6793d9f286c4e082c0244ffb9f2658fe88@bloxroute.regulated.blxrbdn.com  |
| [Flashbots](https://boost.flashbots.net)                                                                  |          :x:         | https://0xac6e77dfe25ecd6110b8e780608cce0dab71fdd5ebea22a16c0205200f2f8e2e3ad3b71d3499c54ad14d6c21b41a37ae@boost-relay.flashbots.net        |
| [Manifold](https://mainnet-relay.securerpc.com)                                                           | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x98650451ba02064f7b000f5768cf0cf4d4e492317d82871bdc87ef841a0743f69f0f1eea11168503240ac35d101c9135@mainnet-relay.securerpc.com      |
| [Ultra Sound](https://relay.ultrasound.money)                                                             | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xa1559ace749633b997cb3fdacffb890aeebdb0f5a3b6aaa7eeeaf1a38af0a8fe88b9e4b1f61f236d2e64d95733327a62@relay.ultrasound.money           |
| [Wenmerge](https://relay.wenmerge.com)                                                                    | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x8c7d33605ecef85403f8b7289c8058f440cbb6bf72b055dfe2f3e2c6695b6a1ea5a9cd0eb3a7982927a463feb4c3dae2@relay.wenmerge.com               |
| [TitanRelay](https://titanrelay.xyz)                                                                      | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x8c4ed5e24fe5c6ae21018437bde147693f68cda427cd1122cf20819c30eda7ed74f72dece09bb313f2a1855595ab677d@titanrelay.xyz                   |

## Hoodi Testnet Relays

| Relay Name                             |     Non-Censoring    | URL                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------------------------------- | :------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [bloXroute](https://bloxroute.com)     | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x821f2a65afb70e7f2e820a925a9b4c80a159620582c1766b1b09729fec178b11ea22abb3a51f07b288be815a1a2ff516@bloxroute.hoodi.blxrbdn.com     |
| [Flashbots](https://www.flashbots.net) |          :x:         | https://0xafa4c6985aa049fb79dd37010438cfebeb0f2bd42b115b89dd678dab0670c1de38da0c4e9138c9290a398ecd9a0b3110@boost-relay-hoodi.flashbots.net |
| [Titan Relay](http://titanrelay.xyz/)  | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xaa58208899c6105603b74396734a6263cc7d947f444f396a90f7b7d3e65d102aec7e5e5291b27e08d02c50a050825c2f@hoodi.titanrelay.xyz            |
| [Aestus](https://aestus.live)          | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x98f0ef62f00780cf8eb06701a7d22725b9437d4768bb19b363e882ae87129945ec206ec2dc16933f31d983f8225772b6@hoodi.aestus.live               |

## Holesky Testnet Relays

| Relay Name                                    |     Non-Censoring    | URL                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------- | :------------------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [bloXroute](https://bloxroute.com)            | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0x821f2a65afb70e7f2e820a925a9b4c80a159620582c1766b1b09729fec178b11ea22abb3a51f07b288be815a1a2ff516@bloxroute.holesky.blxrbdn.com     |
| [Flashbots](https://www.flashbots.net)        |          :x:         | https://0xafa4c6985aa049fb79dd37010438cfebeb0f2bd42b115b89dd678dab0670c1de38da0c4e9138c9290a398ecd9a0b3110@boost-relay-holesky.flashbots.net |
| [Titan Relay](http://titanrelay.xyz/)         |           ?          | https://0xaa58208899c6105603b74396734a6263cc7d947f444f396a90f7b7d3e65d102aec7e5e5291b27e08d02c50a050825c2f@holesky.titanrelay.xyz            |
| [Aestus](https://aestus.live)                 | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xab78bf8c781c58078c3beb5710c57940874dd96aef2835e7742c866b4c7c0406754376c2c8285a36c630346aa5c5f833@holesky.aestus.live               |
| [Ultra Sound](https://relay.ultrasound.money) | :white\_check\_mark: | https://0xb1559beef7b5ba3127485bbbb090362d9f497ba64e177ee2c8e7db74746306efad687f2cf8574e38d70067d40ef136dc@relay-stag.ultrasound.money       |

## Sepolia Testnet Relays

| Relay Name | Non-Censoring | URL                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------- | :-----------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Flashbots  |      :x:      | https://0xafa4c6985aa049fb79dd37010438cfebeb0f2bd42b115b89dd678dab0670c1de38da0c4e9138c9290a398ecd9a0b3110@boost-relay-sepolia.flashbots.net |

## :ladder: Next Steps

Monitor the reliability / uptime / performance of your relays

* **Relay Overview:** [https://beaconcha.in/relays](https://beaconcha.in/relays)
* **mevboost.org - Tracking relays and block builders**: [https://www.mevboost.org](https://www.mevboost.org/)
* **MEV Watch:** [https://www.mevwatch.info](https://www.mevwatch.info/)
* **MEV-Boost Dashboard:** [https://mevboost.pics](https://mevboost.pics/)
* **Tornado Warning:** [https://tornado-warning.info](https://tornado-warning.info/)
* **Rated Network Explorer:** [https://www.rated.network/relays?network=mainnet](https://www.rated.network/relays?network=mainnet)
* **Metrica Relay Monitor:** [https://app.metrika.co/ethereum/dashboard/relay-monitor](https://app.metrika.co/ethereum/dashboard/relay-monitor)
* **RelayScan.io MEV-Boost Analytics:** [https://www.relayscan.io](https://www.relayscan.io/)
* **MEV Panda:** [https://www.mevpanda.com](https://www.mevpanda.com)
* **Inclusion Watch:** [https://www.inclusion.watch](https://www.inclusion.watch)
* **Ethereum Block Value Analytics:** [https://payload.de/data](https://payload.de/data/)

{% hint style="info" %}
Learn to setup [MEV-boost with our guide.](./)
{% endhint %}
